website/content/docs/nia/network-drivers/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Network Drivers
description: >-
  Consul-Terraform-Sync Network Drivers with Terraform and Terraform Cloud
---

# Network Drivers

Consul-Terraform-Sync uses network drivers to execute and update network infrastructure. Drivers transform Consul service-level information into downstream changes by processing and abstracting API and resource details tied to specific network infrastructure.

Consul-Terraform-Sync is a HashiCorp solution to Network Infrastructure Automation. It bridges Consul's networking features and Terraform infrastructure management capabilities. The solution seamlessly embeds Terraform as network drivers to manage automation of Terraform modules. This expands the Consul ecosystem and taps into the rich features and community of Terraform and Terraform providers.

The following table highlights some of the additional features Terraform and Terraform Enterprise offer when used as a network driver for Consul-Terraform-Sync. Visit the [Terraform product page](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/terraform) or [contact our sales team](https://www.hashicorp.com/contact-sales) for a comprehensive list of features.

| Network Driver | Description | Features |
| -------------- | ----------- | -------- |
| [Terraform driver](/docs/nia/network-drivers/terraform) | Consul-Terraform-Sync automates a local installation of the [Terraform CLI](https://www.terraform.io/) | - Local Terraform execution <br/> - Local workspace directories <br/> - [Backend options](/docs/nia/configuration#backend) available for state storage <br/> |
| [Terraform Cloud driver](/docs/nia/network-drivers/terraform-cloud) | Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise automates remote workspaces on [Terraform Enterprise](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/index.html)<sup>1</sup> | - [Remote Terraform execution](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/run/index.html) <br/> - Concurrent runs <br/> - [Secured variables](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/workspaces/variables.html) <br/> - [State versions](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/workspaces/state.html) <br/> - [Sentinel](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/sentinel/index.html) to enforce governance policies as code <br/> - [Audit logs](https://www.terraform.io/docs/enterprise/admin/logging.html) <br/> - Run [history](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/run/manage.html), [triggers](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/workspaces/run-triggers.html) and [notifications](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/workspaces/notifications.html) |


-> <sup>1</sup> **Upcoming**: The Terraform Cloud driver is introduced in Consul-Terraform-Sync v0.3.0 and only supports [Terraform Enterprise](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/terraform/editions/enterprise), the self-hosted distribution. The upcoming v0.4.0 release will support integration with [Terraform Cloud](https://www.terraform.io/cloud), the HashiCorp managed service.

## Understanding Terraform Automation

Consul-Terraform-Sync automates Terraform execution using a templated configuration to carry out infrastructure changes. The auto-generated configuration leverages input variables sourced from Consul and builds on top of reusable Terraform modules published and maintained by HashiCorp partners and the community. Consul-Terraform-Sync can also run your custom built modules that suit your team's specific network automation needs.

The network driver for Consul-Terraform-Sync determines how the Terraform automation operates. Visit the driver pages to read more about the [Terraform driver](/docs/nia/network-drivers/terraform) and the [Terraform Cloud driver](/docs/nia/network-drivers/terraform-cloud).

### Upgrading Terraform

Upgrading the Terraform version used by Consul-Terraform-Sync may introduce breaking changes that can impact the Terraform modules. Refer to the Terraform [upgrade guides](https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/index.html) for details before upgrading.

The following versions were identified as containing changes that may impact Terraform modules.

- [Terraform v0.15](https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/0-15.html)

Commit message:

nia/docs 0.4.0-beta1 (#11170)
* docs/nia: Add Consul KV condition

* docs/nia: Clarify boolean Consul KV condition options

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

* nia/docs: Remove TFE-only restriction

Also updates Terraform Enterprise references to the more
general Terraform Cloud term.

* nia/docs: Update Terraform Cloud features

* nia/docs: Callouts for v0.4.0-beta

* docs/nia: Indicate version for removal of tag field

Clarifying when this tag will be removed so there is no confusion
when it is not present in the v0.4.0-beta release.

Co-authored-by: Melissa Kam <mkam@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Melissa Kam <3768460+mkam@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/docs/nia/network-drivers/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Network Drivers
description: >-
  Consul-Terraform-Sync Network Drivers with Terraform and Terraform Cloud
---

# Network Drivers

Consul-Terraform-Sync uses network drivers to execute and update network infrastructure. Drivers transform Consul service-level information into downstream changes by processing and abstracting API and resource details tied to specific network infrastructure.

Consul-Terraform-Sync is a HashiCorp solution to Network Infrastructure Automation. It bridges Consul's networking features and Terraform infrastructure management capabilities. The solution seamlessly embeds Terraform as network drivers to manage automation of Terraform modules. This expands the Consul ecosystem and taps into the rich features and community of Terraform and Terraform providers.

The following table highlights some of the additional features Terraform and Terraform Cloud offer when used as a network driver for Consul-Terraform-Sync. Visit the [Terraform product page](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/terraform) or [contact our sales team](https://www.hashicorp.com/contact-sales) for a comprehensive list of features.

-> **Beta:** The integration with the HashiCorp managed service version of Terraform Cloud is currently only available in Consul-Terraform-Sync v0.4.0-beta. Integration with the self-hosted version of Terraform Cloud is available as of v0.3.0.

| Network Driver | Description | Features |
| -------------- | ----------- | -------- |
| [Terraform driver](/docs/nia/network-drivers/terraform) | Consul-Terraform-Sync automates a local installation of the [Terraform CLI](https://www.terraform.io/) | - Local Terraform execution <br/> - Local workspace directories <br/> - [Backend options](/docs/nia/configuration#backend) available for state storage <br/> |
| [Terraform Cloud driver](/docs/nia/network-drivers/terraform-cloud) | Consul-Terraform-Sync Enterprise automates remote workspaces on [Terraform Cloud](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/index.html) | - [Remote Terraform execution](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/run/index.html) <br/> - Concurrent runs <br/> - [Secured variables](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/workspaces/variables.html) <br/> - [State versions](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/workspaces/state.html) <br/> - [Sentinel](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/sentinel/index.html) to enforce governance policies as code <br/> - Audit [logs](https://www.terraform.io/docs/enterprise/admin/logging.html) and [trails](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/api/audit-trails.html) <br/> - Run [history](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/run/manage.html), [triggers](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/workspaces/run-triggers.html) and [notifications](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/workspaces/notifications.html) <br/> - [Terraform Cloud Agents](https://www.terraform.io/docs/cloud/agents/index.html) |

## Understanding Terraform Automation

Consul-Terraform-Sync automates Terraform execution using a templated configuration to carry out infrastructure changes. The auto-generated configuration leverages input variables sourced from Consul and builds on top of reusable Terraform modules published and maintained by HashiCorp partners and the community. Consul-Terraform-Sync can also run your custom built modules that suit your team's specific network automation needs.

The network driver for Consul-Terraform-Sync determines how the Terraform automation operates. Visit the driver pages to read more about the [Terraform driver](/docs/nia/network-drivers/terraform) and the [Terraform Cloud driver](/docs/nia/network-drivers/terraform-cloud).

### Upgrading Terraform

Upgrading the Terraform version used by Consul-Terraform-Sync may introduce breaking changes that can impact the Terraform modules. Refer to the Terraform [upgrade guides](https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/index.html) for details before upgrading.

The following versions were identified as containing changes that may impact Terraform modules.

- [Terraform v0.15](https://www.terraform.io/upgrade-guides/0-15.html)
