website/content/docs/connect/config-entries/mesh.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Configuration Entry Kind: Mesh'
description: >-
  The mesh config entry kind allows for globally defining default
  configuration across all services mesh proxies.
  Settings in this config entry apply across all namespaces and federated datacenters.
  Currently, only one mesh entry is supported.
---

# Mesh

-> **v1.10.0+:** This configuration entry is supported in Consul versions 1.10.0+.

The `mesh` configuration entry allows you to define a global default configuration that applies to all service mesh proxies.
Settings in this config entry apply across all namespaces and federated datacenters.

## Sample Configuration Entries

### Mesh Destinations Only

Only allow transparent proxies to dial addresses in the mesh.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul OSS">

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind = "mesh"
TransparentProxy {
  MeshDestinationsOnly = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
spec:
  transparentProxy:
    meshDestinationsOnly: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "TransparentProxy": {
    "MeshDestinationsOnly": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

The `mesh` configuration entry can only be created in the `default` namespace and will apply to proxies across **all** namespaces.

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind      = "mesh"
Namespace = "default" # Can only be set to "default".
Partition = "default"

TransparentProxy {
  MeshDestinationsOnly = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
  namespace: default
  partition: default
spec:
  transparentProxy:
    meshDestinationsOnly: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "Namespace": "default",
  "Partition": "default",
  "TransparentProxy": {
    "MeshDestinationsOnly": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Available Fields

<ConfigEntryReference
  keys={[
    {
      name: 'apiVersion',
      description: 'Must be set to `consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1`',
      hcl: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Kind',
      description: {
        hcl: 'Must be set to `mesh`',
        yaml: 'Must be set to `Mesh`',
      },
    },
    {
      name: 'Namespace',
      type: `string: "default"`,
      enterprise: true,
      description:
        'Must be set to `default`. The configuration will apply to all namespaces.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Partition',
      type: `string: "default"`,
      enterprise: true,
      description:
        'Specifies the name of the admin partition in which the configuration entry applies. Refer to the [Admin Partitions documentation](/docs/enterprise/admin-partitions) for additional information.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Meta',
      type: 'map<string|string>: nil',
      description:
        'Specifies arbitrary KV metadata pairs. Added in Consul 1.8.4.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'metadata',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'name',
          description: 'Must be set to `mesh`',
        },
        {
          name: 'namespace',
          enterprise: true,
          description:
            'Must be set tot `default`. If running Consul Open Source, the namespace is ignored (see [Kubernetes Namespaces in Consul OSS](/docs/k8s/crds#consul-oss)). If running Consul Enterprise see [Kubernetes Namespaces in Consul Enterprise](/docs/k8s/crds#consul-enterprise) for additional information.',
        },
        {
          name: 'partition',
          enterprise: true,
          description:
            'Specifies the admin partition in which the configuration will apply. The current partition is used if unspecified. Refer to the [Admin Partitions documentation](/docs/enterprise/admin-partitions) for details. The partitions parameter is not supported in Consul OSS.',
        },
      ],
      hcl: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'TransparentProxy',
      type: 'TransparentProxyConfig: <optional>',
      description:
        'Controls configuration specific to proxies in `transparent` [mode](/docs/connect/config-entries/service-defaults#mode). Added in v1.10.0.',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'MeshDestinationsOnly',
          type: 'bool: false',
          description: `Determines whether sidecar proxies operating in transparent mode can
                        proxy traffic to IP addresses not registered in Consul's mesh. If enabled, traffic will only be proxied
                        to upstream proxies or Connect-native services. If disabled, requests will be proxied as-is to the
                        original destination IP address. Consul will not encrypt the connection.`,
        },
      ],
    },
  ]}
/>

## ACLs

Configuration entries may be protected by [ACLs](/docs/security/acl).

Reading a `mesh` config entry requires no specific privileges.

Creating, updating, or deleting a `mesh` config entry requires
`operator:write`.

Commit message:

proposed language about why there is no <CE>.meta.partition field

website/content/docs/connect/config-entries/mesh.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: 'Configuration Entry Kind: Mesh'
description: >-
  The mesh config entry kind allows for globally defining default
  configuration across all services mesh proxies.
  Settings in this config entry apply across all namespaces and federated datacenters.
  Currently, only one mesh entry is supported.
---

# Mesh

-> **v1.10.0+:** This configuration entry is supported in Consul versions 1.10.0+.

The `mesh` configuration entry allows you to define a global default configuration that applies to all service mesh proxies.
Settings in this config entry apply across all namespaces and federated datacenters.

## Sample Configuration Entries

### Mesh Destinations Only

Only allow transparent proxies to dial addresses in the mesh.

<Tabs>
<Tab heading="Consul OSS">

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind = "mesh"
TransparentProxy {
  MeshDestinationsOnly = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
spec:
  transparentProxy:
    meshDestinationsOnly: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "TransparentProxy": {
    "MeshDestinationsOnly": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
<Tab heading="Consul Enterprise">

The `mesh` configuration entry can only be created in the `default` namespace and will apply to proxies across **all** namespaces.

<CodeTabs tabs={[ "HCL", "Kubernetes YAML", "JSON" ]}>

```hcl
Kind      = "mesh"
Namespace = "default" # Can only be set to "default".
Partition = "default"

TransparentProxy {
  MeshDestinationsOnly = true
}
```

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: Mesh
metadata:
  name: mesh
  namespace: default
spec:
  transparentProxy:
    meshDestinationsOnly: true
```

```json
{
  "Kind": "mesh",
  "Namespace": "default",
  "Partition": "default",
  "TransparentProxy": {
    "MeshDestinationsOnly": true
  }
}
```

</CodeTabs>

</Tab>
</Tabs>

Note that the Kuberetes example does not include a `partition` field. Configuration entries are applied on Kubernetes using [custom resource definitions (CRD)](/docs/k8s/crds), which can only reference their own partition.

## Available Fields

<ConfigEntryReference
  keys={[
    {
      name: 'apiVersion',
      description: 'Must be set to `consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1`',
      hcl: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Kind',
      description: {
        hcl: 'Must be set to `mesh`',
        yaml: 'Must be set to `Mesh`',
      },
    },
    {
      name: 'Namespace',
      type: `string: "default"`,
      enterprise: true,
      description:
        'Must be set to `default`. The configuration will apply to all namespaces.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Partition',
      type: `string: "default"`,
      enterprise: true,
      description:
        'Specifies the name of the admin partition in which the configuration entry applies. Refer to the [Admin Partitions documentation](/docs/enterprise/admin-partitions) for additional information.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'Meta',
      type: 'map<string|string>: nil',
      description:
        'Specifies arbitrary KV metadata pairs. Added in Consul 1.8.4.',
      yaml: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'metadata',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'name',
          description: 'Must be set to `mesh`',
        },
        {
          name: 'namespace',
          enterprise: true,
          description:
            'Must be set to `default`. If running Consul Open Source, the namespace is ignored (see [Kubernetes Namespaces in Consul OSS](/docs/k8s/crds#consul-oss)). If running Consul Enterprise see [Kubernetes Namespaces in Consul Enterprise](/docs/k8s/crds#consul-enterprise) for additional information.',
        },
      ],
      hcl: false,
    },
    {
      name: 'TransparentProxy',
      type: 'TransparentProxyConfig: <optional>',
      description:
        'Controls configuration specific to proxies in `transparent` [mode](/docs/connect/config-entries/service-defaults#mode). Added in v1.10.0.',
      children: [
        {
          name: 'MeshDestinationsOnly',
          type: 'bool: false',
          description: `Determines whether sidecar proxies operating in transparent mode can
                        proxy traffic to IP addresses not registered in Consul's mesh. If enabled, traffic will only be proxied
                        to upstream proxies or Connect-native services. If disabled, requests will be proxied as-is to the
                        original destination IP address. Consul will not encrypt the connection.`,
        },
      ],
    },
  ]}
/>

## ACLs

Configuration entries may be protected by [ACLs](/docs/security/acl).

Reading a `mesh` config entry requires no specific privileges.

Creating, updating, or deleting a `mesh` config entry requires
`operator:write`.
