website/content/commands/config/delete.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config Delete'
---

# Consul Config Delete

Command: `consul config delete`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[DELETE\] /v1/config/:kind/:name](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/config#delete-configuration)

The `config delete` command deletes the configuration entry specified by the
kind and name. See the [configuration entries docs](/docs/agent/config-entries)
for more details about configuration entries.

## Usage

Usage: `consul config delete [options]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### Config Delete Options

- `-kind` - Specifies the kind of the config entry to read.

- `-name` - Specifies the name of the config entry to delete. The name of the
  `proxy-defaults` config entry must be `global`, and the name of the `mesh`
  config entry must be `mesh`.

- `-cas` - Perform a Check-And-Set operation. Specifying this value also
  requires the -modify-index flag to be set. The default value is false.

- `-modify-index=<int>` - Unsigned integer representing the ModifyIndex of the
  config entry. This is used in combination with the -cas flag.

## Examples

    $ consul config delete -kind service-defaults -name web

    $ consul config delete -kind service-defaults -name web -cas -modify-index 26

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/config/delete.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config Delete'
---

# Consul Config Delete

Command: `consul config delete`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[DELETE\] /v1/config/:kind/:name](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/config#delete-configuration)

The `config delete` command deletes the configuration entry specified by the
kind and name. See the [configuration entries docs](/docs/agent/config-entries)
for more details about configuration entries.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required                        |
| ----------------------------------- |
| `service:write` or `operator:write` |

## Usage

Usage: `consul config delete [options]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### Config Delete Options

- `-kind` - Specifies the kind of the config entry to read.

- `-name` - Specifies the name of the config entry to delete. The name of the
  `proxy-defaults` config entry must be `global`, and the name of the `mesh`
  config entry must be `mesh`.

- `-cas` - Perform a Check-And-Set operation. Specifying this value also
  requires the -modify-index flag to be set. The default value is false.

- `-modify-index=<int>` - Unsigned integer representing the ModifyIndex of the
  config entry. This is used in combination with the -cas flag.

## Examples

    $ consul config delete -kind service-defaults -name web

    $ consul config delete -kind service-defaults -name web -cas -modify-index 26
