website/content/commands/config/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config'
---

# Consul Config

Command: `consul config`

The `config` command is used to interact with Consul's central configuration
system. It exposes commands for creating, updating, reading, and deleting
different kinds of config entries. See the
[agent configuration](/consul/docs/agent/config/config-files#enable_central_service_config)
for more information on how to enable this functionality for centrally
configuring services and [configuration entries docs](/consul/docs/agent/config-entries) for a description
of the configuration entries content.

## Usage

Usage: `consul config <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul config -h` to view
the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul config <subcommand> [options] [args]

  This command has subcommands for interacting with Consul's centralized
  configuration system. Here are some simple examples, and more detailed
  examples are available in the subcommands or the documentation.

  Write a config:

    $ consul config write web.serviceconf.hcl

  Read a config:

    $ consul config read -kind service-defaults -name web

  List all configs for a type:

    $ consul config list -kind service-defaults

  Delete a config:

    $ consul config delete -kind service-defaults -name web

  For more examples, ask for subcommand help or view the documentation.
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/config/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Config'
description: >-
  The `consul config` command interacts with configuration entries. It exposes top-level commands for global configurations of proxies, gateways, and services.
---

# Consul Config

Command: `consul config`

The `config` command is used to interact with Consul's central configuration
system. It exposes commands for creating, updating, reading, and deleting
different kinds of config entries. See the
[agent configuration](/consul/docs/agent/config/config-files#enable_central_service_config)
for more information on how to enable this functionality for centrally
configuring services and [configuration entries docs](/consul/docs/agent/config-entries) for a description
of the configuration entries content.

## Usage

Usage: `consul config <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul config -h` to view
the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul config <subcommand> [options] [args]

  This command has subcommands for interacting with Consul's centralized
  configuration system. Here are some simple examples, and more detailed
  examples are available in the subcommands or the documentation.

  Write a config:

    $ consul config write web.serviceconf.hcl

  Read a config:

    $ consul config read -kind service-defaults -name web

  List all configs for a type:

    $ consul config list -kind service-defaults

  Delete a config:

    $ consul config delete -kind service-defaults -name web

  For more examples, ask for subcommand help or view the documentation.
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.
