website/content/commands/namespace/create.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace Create'
---

# Consul Namespace Create

Command: `consul namespace create`

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace create` command creates a namespaces using the CLI parameters provided.
This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.2.

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace create -name <namespace name> [options]`

Request a namespace to be created. Construction of the namespace definition is handled by this command
from the CLI arguments.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-default-policy-id=<value>` - ID of a policy from the default namespace to inject for all tokens
  in this namespace. May be specified multiple times.

- `-default-policy-name=<value>` - Name of a policy from the default namespace to inject for all
  tokens in this namespace. May be specified multiple times.

- `-default-role-id=<value>` - ID of a role from the default namespace to inject for all tokens in
  this namespace. May be specified multiple times.

- `-default-role-name=<value>` - Name of a role from the default namespace to inject for all tokens
  in this namespace. May be specified multiple times.

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the namespace.

- `-format=<string>` - How to output the results. The choices are: pretty or json

- `-meta=<value>` - Metadata to set on the namespace, formatted as key=value. This flag
  may be specified multiple times to set multiple meta fields

- `-name=<string>` - The namespace's name. This flag is required.

- `-show-meta` - Indicates that namespace metadata such as the raft indices should
  be shown for the namespace

## Examples

Create a new Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace create -name "team-1"
Name: team-1
```

Showing Raft Metadata:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace create -name team-1 -show-meta
Name: team-1
Create Index: 339
Modify Index: 344
```

JSON Format:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace create -name team2 -description "Example Namespace" -meta "team-id=574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37" -format=json
{
   "Name": "team2",
   "Description": "Example Namespace",
   "Meta": {
      "team-id": "574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37"
   },
   "CreateIndex": 352,
   "ModifyIndex": 352
}
```

Commit message:

docs: update docs about namespace default policy/role
To include details about the permissions the ACL token must have to perform the request.

website/content/commands/namespace/create.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace Create'
---

# Consul Namespace Create

Command: `consul namespace create`

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace create` command creates a namespaces using the CLI parameters provided.
This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.2.

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace create -name <namespace name> [options]`

Request a namespace to be created. Construction of the namespace definition is handled by this command
from the CLI arguments.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-default-policy-id=<value>` - ID of a policy from the default namespace to inject for all tokens
  in this namespace. May be specified multiple times.

- `-default-policy-name=<value>` - Name of a policy from the default namespace to inject for all
  tokens in this namespace. May be specified multiple times. The ACL token used with
  this command must have [`acl:write` access](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules#acl-resource-rules) to the linked policy.

- `-default-role-id=<value>` - ID of a role from the default namespace to inject for all tokens in
  this namespace. May be specified multiple times. The ACL token used with
  this command must have [`acl:write` access](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules#acl-resource-rules) to the linked role.

- `-default-role-name=<value>` - Name of a role from the default namespace to inject for all tokens
  in this namespace. May be specified multiple times.

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the namespace.

- `-format=<string>` - How to output the results. The choices are: pretty or json

- `-meta=<value>` - Metadata to set on the namespace, formatted as key=value. This flag
  may be specified multiple times to set multiple meta fields

- `-name=<string>` - The namespace's name. This flag is required.

- `-show-meta` - Indicates that namespace metadata such as the raft indices should
  be shown for the namespace

## Examples

Create a new Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace create -name "team-1"
Name: team-1
```

Showing Raft Metadata:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace create -name team-1 -show-meta
Name: team-1
Create Index: 339
Modify Index: 344
```

JSON Format:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace create -name team2 -description "Example Namespace" -meta "team-id=574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37" -format=json
{
   "Name": "team2",
   "Description": "Example Namespace",
   "Meta": {
      "team-id": "574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37"
   },
   "CreateIndex": 352,
   "ModifyIndex": 352
}
```
