website/content/commands/namespace/delete.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace Delete'
---

# Consul Namespace Delete

Command: `consul namespace delete`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[DELETE\] /v1/namespace/:name](/consul/api-docs/namespaces#delete-a-namespace)

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace delete` command deletes a namespace. This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.0. If
ACLs are enabled then this command will require a token with `operator:write` privileges.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required     |
| ---------------- |
| `operator:write` |

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace delete <name>`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Delete a Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace delete "team-1"
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/namespace/delete.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace Delete'
description: |
  The `consul namespace delete` command deletes a namespace in Consul Enterprise.
---

# Consul Namespace Delete

Command: `consul namespace delete`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[DELETE\] /v1/namespace/:name](/consul/api-docs/namespaces#delete-a-namespace)

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace delete` command deletes a namespace. This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.0. If
ACLs are enabled then this command will require a token with `operator:write` privileges.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required     |
| ---------------- |
| `operator:write` |

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace delete <name>`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Delete a Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace delete "team-1"
```
