website/content/commands/namespace/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace'
description: |
  The namespace command provides management of Consul Enterprise namespaces.
---

# Consul Namespace

Command: `consul namespace`

<EnterpriseAlert />

The `namespace` command provides management of Consul Enterprise namespaces. This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.0.

If ACLs are enabled then a token with operator privileges may be required in order to use this command. Write
requests are forwarded to the leader in the primary datacenter. Therefore these commands can be run against
any agent in any datacenter.

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul namespace -h` to view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul namespace <subcommand> [options] [args]

  This command has subcommands for interacting with Consul Enterprise
  Namespaces. Here are some simple examples. More detailed
  examples are available in the subcommands or the documentation.

  ...

Subcommands:
    create    Create a Namespace
    delete    Delete a Namespace
    list      List all Namespaces
    read      Read a Namespace
    update    Update a Namespace
    write     Create or update a Namespace from its full definition
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Basic Examples

Create a Namespace

```shell-session
$ consul namespace create -name team1
```

Create or Update a Namespace from its full definition:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace write ns1.hcl
```

Read a Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace read ns1
```

List all Namespaces:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace list
```

Update a namespace

```shell-session
$ consul namespace update -name team1 -description "first namespace"
```

Delete a Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace delete team1
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/namespace/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace'
description: |
  The `consul namespace` command interacts with namespaces in Consul Enterprise. It exposes top-level commands to create and manage namespaces in Consul deployments.
---

# Consul Namespace

Command: `consul namespace`

<EnterpriseAlert />

The `namespace` command provides management of Consul Enterprise namespaces. This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.0.

If ACLs are enabled then a token with operator privileges may be required in order to use this command. Write
requests are forwarded to the leader in the primary datacenter. Therefore these commands can be run against
any agent in any datacenter.

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul namespace -h` to view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul namespace <subcommand> [options] [args]

  This command has subcommands for interacting with Consul Enterprise
  Namespaces. Here are some simple examples. More detailed
  examples are available in the subcommands or the documentation.

  ...

Subcommands:
    create    Create a Namespace
    delete    Delete a Namespace
    list      List all Namespaces
    read      Read a Namespace
    update    Update a Namespace
    write     Create or update a Namespace from its full definition
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Basic Examples

Create a Namespace

```shell-session
$ consul namespace create -name team1
```

Create or Update a Namespace from its full definition:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace write ns1.hcl
```

Read a Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace read ns1
```

List all Namespaces:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace list
```

Update a namespace

```shell-session
$ consul namespace update -name team1 -description "first namespace"
```

Delete a Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace delete team1
```
