website/content/commands/namespace/list.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace List'
---

# Consul Namespace List

Command: `consul namespace list`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/namespaces](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/namespaces#list-all-namespaces)

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace list` command lists all namespace configurations. This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.0. If
ACLs are enabled then this command will require a token with `operator:read` privileges or any `read` privileges
within the target namespaces. The results will be filtered based on the ACL token and therefore it is possible to
see a partial list.

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace list`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-format=<string>` - How to output the results. The choices are: pretty or json

- `-meta` - Indicates that namespace metadata such as the raft indices should be
  shown for the namespace

## Examples

List Namespaces:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace list
default:
   Description:
      Builtin Default Namespace
foo:
   Description:
      Example Namespace
team-1:
   Description:

```

Showing Raft Metadata:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace list -meta
default:
   Description:
      Builtin Default Namespace
   Create Index: 4
   Modify Index: 4
foo:
   Description:
      Example Namespace
   Create Index: 352
   Modify Index: 352
team-1:
   Description:
   Create Index: 339
   Modify Index: 344

```

JSON Format:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace list -format=json
[
   {
      "Name": "default",
      "Description": "Builtin Default Namespace",
      "CreateIndex": 4,
      "ModifyIndex": 4
   },
   {
      "Name": "foo",
      "Description": "Example Namespace",
      "Meta": {
         "team-id": "574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37"
      },
      "CreateIndex": 352,
      "ModifyIndex": 352
   },
   {
      "Name": "team-1",
      "CreateIndex": 339,
      "ModifyIndex": 344
   }
]
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/namespace/list.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace List'
---

# Consul Namespace List

Command: `consul namespace list`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/namespaces](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/namespaces#list-all-namespaces)

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace list` command lists all namespace configurations. This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.0. If
ACLs are enabled then this command will require a token with `operator:read` privileges or any `read` privileges
within the target namespaces. The results will be filtered based on the ACL token and therefore it is possible to
see a partial list.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required                          |
| ------------------------------------- |
| `operator:read` or `namespace:* read` |

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace list`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-format=<string>` - How to output the results. The choices are: pretty or json

- `-meta` - Indicates that namespace metadata such as the raft indices should be
  shown for the namespace

## Examples

List Namespaces:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace list
default:
   Description:
      Builtin Default Namespace
foo:
   Description:
      Example Namespace
team-1:
   Description:

```

Showing Raft Metadata:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace list -meta
default:
   Description:
      Builtin Default Namespace
   Create Index: 4
   Modify Index: 4
foo:
   Description:
      Example Namespace
   Create Index: 352
   Modify Index: 352
team-1:
   Description:
   Create Index: 339
   Modify Index: 344

```

JSON Format:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace list -format=json
[
   {
      "Name": "default",
      "Description": "Builtin Default Namespace",
      "CreateIndex": 4,
      "ModifyIndex": 4
   },
   {
      "Name": "foo",
      "Description": "Example Namespace",
      "Meta": {
         "team-id": "574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37"
      },
      "CreateIndex": 352,
      "ModifyIndex": 352
   },
   {
      "Name": "team-1",
      "CreateIndex": 339,
      "ModifyIndex": 344
   }
]
```
