website/content/commands/namespace/read.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace Read'
---

# Consul Namespace Read

Command: `consul namespace read`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/namespace/:name](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/namespaces#read-a-namespace)

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace read` command reads a namespaces configuration. This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.0. If
ACLs are enabled then this command will require a token with `operator:read` privileges or any `read` privileges
within the target namespace.

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace read <name>`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-format=<string>` - How to output the results. The choices are: pretty or json

- `-meta` - Indicates that namespace metadata such as the raft indices should be
  shown for the namespace

## Examples

Read a Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace read "team-1"
Name: team-1
Description:
```

Showing Raft Metadata:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace read -meta "team-1"
Name: team-1
Description:
Create Index: 339
Modify Index: 344
```

JSON Format:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace read -format=json foo
{
   "Name": "foo",
   "Description": "Example Namespace",
   "Meta": {
      "team-id": "574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37"
   },
   "CreateIndex": 352,
   "ModifyIndex": 352
}
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/namespace/read.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace Read'
---

# Consul Namespace Read

Command: `consul namespace read`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/namespace/:name](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/namespaces#read-a-namespace)

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace read` command reads a namespaces configuration. This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.0. If
ACLs are enabled then this command will require a token with `operator:read` privileges or any `read` privileges
within the target namespace.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required                          |
| ------------------------------------- |
| `operator:read` or `namespace:* read` |

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace read <name>`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-format=<string>` - How to output the results. The choices are: pretty or json

- `-meta` - Indicates that namespace metadata such as the raft indices should be
  shown for the namespace

## Examples

Read a Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace read "team-1"
Name: team-1
Description:
```

Showing Raft Metadata:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace read -meta "team-1"
Name: team-1
Description:
Create Index: 339
Modify Index: 344
```

JSON Format:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace read -format=json foo
{
   "Name": "foo",
   "Description": "Example Namespace",
   "Meta": {
      "team-id": "574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37"
   },
   "CreateIndex": 352,
   "ModifyIndex": 352
}
```
