website/content/commands/namespace/update.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace Update'
---

# Consul Namespace Update

Command: `consul namespace update`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/namespace/:name](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/namespaces#update-a-namespace)

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace update` command updates a namespaces using the CLI parameters provided.
This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.2.

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace update -name <namespace name> [options]`

Request a namespace to be update. Construction of the namespace definition is handled by this command
from the CLI arguments. Some parts of the Namespace such as ACL configurations and meta can be merged
with the existing namespace definition.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-default-policy-id=<value>` - ID of a policy from the default namespace to inject for all tokens
  in this namespace. May be specified multiple times. The ACL token used with
  this command must have [`acl:write` access](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules#acl-resource-rules) to the linked policy.

- `-default-policy-name=<value>` - Name of a policy from the default namespace to inject for all
  tokens in this namespace. May be specified multiple times. The ACL token used with
  this command must have [`acl:write` access](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules#acl-resource-rules) to the linked policy.

- `-default-role-id=<value>` - ID of a role from the default namespace to inject for all tokens in
  this namespace. May be specified multiple times. The ACL token used with
  this command must have [`acl:write` access](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules#acl-resource-rules) to the linked role.

- `-default-role-name=<value>` - Name of a role from the default namespace to inject for all tokens
  in this namespace. May be specified multiple times. The ACL token used with
  this command must have [`acl:write` access](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules#acl-resource-rules) to the linked role.

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the namespace.

- `-format=<string>` - How to output the results. The choices are: pretty or json

- `-merge-acls` - Merge the new ACL policies and roles with the existing values.

- `-merge-meta` - Merge new meta values with existing meta.

- `-meta=<value>` - Metadata to set on the namespace, formatted as key=value. This flag
  may be specified multiple times to set multiple meta fields

- `-name=<string>` - The namespace's name. This flag is required.

- `-show-meta` - Indicates that namespace metadata such as the raft indices should
  be shown for the namespace

## Examples

Update a namespace with a new description:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace update -name "team-1" -description "example description"
Name: team-1
Description:
   example description
```

Showing Raft Metadata:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace update -name team-1 -show-meta -default-policy-id 1206bf1c-6239-46e8-b9f8-b426667cf428
Name: team-1
ACLs:
   Default Policies:
      1206bf1c-6239-46e8-b9f8-b426667cf428 / team1-universal-policy
Create Index: 339
Modify Index: 344
```

JSON Format:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace update -name team2 -description "Example Namespace" -meta "external-source=kubernetes" -format=json
{
   "Name": "team2",
   "Description": "Example Namespace",
   "Meta": {
      "external-source": "kubernetes"
   },
   "CreateIndex": 352,
   "ModifyIndex": 352
}
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/namespace/update.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace Update'
---

# Consul Namespace Update

Command: `consul namespace update`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/namespace/:name](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/namespaces#update-a-namespace)

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace update` command updates a namespaces using the CLI parameters provided.
This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.2.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required     |
| ---------------- |
| `operator:write` |

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace update -name <namespace name> [options]`

Request a namespace to be update. Construction of the namespace definition is handled by this command
from the CLI arguments. Some parts of the Namespace such as ACL configurations and meta can be merged
with the existing namespace definition.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-default-policy-id=<value>` - ID of a policy from the default namespace to inject for all tokens
  in this namespace. May be specified multiple times. The ACL token used with
  this command must have [`acl:write` access](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules#acl-resource-rules) to the linked policy.

- `-default-policy-name=<value>` - Name of a policy from the default namespace to inject for all
  tokens in this namespace. May be specified multiple times. The ACL token used with
  this command must have [`acl:write` access](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules#acl-resource-rules) to the linked policy.

- `-default-role-id=<value>` - ID of a role from the default namespace to inject for all tokens in
  this namespace. May be specified multiple times. The ACL token used with
  this command must have [`acl:write` access](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules#acl-resource-rules) to the linked role.

- `-default-role-name=<value>` - Name of a role from the default namespace to inject for all tokens
  in this namespace. May be specified multiple times. The ACL token used with
  this command must have [`acl:write` access](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules#acl-resource-rules) to the linked role.

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the namespace.

- `-format=<string>` - How to output the results. The choices are: pretty or json

- `-merge-acls` - Merge the new ACL policies and roles with the existing values.

- `-merge-meta` - Merge new meta values with existing meta.

- `-meta=<value>` - Metadata to set on the namespace, formatted as key=value. This flag
  may be specified multiple times to set multiple meta fields

- `-name=<string>` - The namespace's name. This flag is required.

- `-show-meta` - Indicates that namespace metadata such as the raft indices should
  be shown for the namespace

## Examples

Update a namespace with a new description:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace update -name "team-1" -description "example description"
Name: team-1
Description:
   example description
```

Showing Raft Metadata:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace update -name team-1 -show-meta -default-policy-id 1206bf1c-6239-46e8-b9f8-b426667cf428
Name: team-1
ACLs:
   Default Policies:
      1206bf1c-6239-46e8-b9f8-b426667cf428 / team1-universal-policy
Create Index: 339
Modify Index: 344
```

JSON Format:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace update -name team2 -description "Example Namespace" -meta "external-source=kubernetes" -format=json
{
   "Name": "team2",
   "Description": "Example Namespace",
   "Meta": {
      "external-source": "kubernetes"
   },
   "CreateIndex": 352,
   "ModifyIndex": 352
}
```
