website/content/commands/namespace/write.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace Write'
---

# Consul Namespace Write

Command: `consul namespace write`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/namespace/:name](/consul/api-docs/namespaces#update-a-namespace)

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace write` command creates or updates a namespace's configuration from its full definition. This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.0.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required     |
| ---------------- |
| `operator:write` |

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace write <namespace definition>`

The `<namespace definition>` must either be a file path or `-` to indicate that
the definition should be read from stdin. The definition can be in either JSON
or HCL format. See [here](/consul/docs/enterprise/namespaces#namespace-definition) for a description of the namespace definition.

#### Command Options

- `-format=<string>` - How to output the results. The choices are: pretty or json

- `-meta` - Indicates that namespace metadata such as the raft indices should be
  shown for the namespace

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Create a new Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace write - <<< 'Name = "team-1"'
Name: team-1
Description:
```

Showing Raft Metadata:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace write -meta - <<< 'Name = "team-1"'
Name: team-1
Description:
Create Index: 339
Modify Index: 344
```

JSON Format:

```shell-session
$ cat ns.hcl
Name = "foo"
Description = "Example Namespace"
Meta {
   team-id = "574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37"
}
$ consul namespace write -format=json ns.hcl
{
   "Name": "foo",
   "Description": "Example Namespace",
   "Meta": {
      "team-id": "574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37"
   },
   "CreateIndex": 352,
   "ModifyIndex": 352
}
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/namespace/write.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Namespace Write'
description: |
  The `consul namespace write` command creates or updates a namespace's configuration in Consul Enterprise.
---

# Consul Namespace Write

Command: `consul namespace write`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/namespace/:name](/consul/api-docs/namespaces#update-a-namespace)

<EnterpriseAlert />

This `namespace write` command creates or updates a namespace's configuration from its full definition. This was added in Consul Enterprise 1.7.0.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required     |
| ---------------- |
| `operator:write` |

## Usage

Usage: `consul namespace write <namespace definition>`

The `<namespace definition>` must either be a file path or `-` to indicate that
the definition should be read from stdin. The definition can be in either JSON
or HCL format. See [here](/consul/docs/enterprise/namespaces#namespace-definition) for a description of the namespace definition.

#### Command Options

- `-format=<string>` - How to output the results. The choices are: pretty or json

- `-meta` - Indicates that namespace metadata such as the raft indices should be
  shown for the namespace

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Create a new Namespace:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace write - <<< 'Name = "team-1"'
Name: team-1
Description:
```

Showing Raft Metadata:

```shell-session
$ consul namespace write -meta - <<< 'Name = "team-1"'
Name: team-1
Description:
Create Index: 339
Modify Index: 344
```

JSON Format:

```shell-session
$ cat ns.hcl
Name = "foo"
Description = "Example Namespace"
Meta {
   team-id = "574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37"
}
$ consul namespace write -format=json ns.hcl
{
   "Name": "foo",
   "Description": "Example Namespace",
   "Meta": {
      "team-id": "574407f3-8b26-4c84-8e51-028bb8cbdd37"
   },
   "CreateIndex": 352,
   "ModifyIndex": 352
}
```
