website/content/commands/intention/create.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Intention Create'
---

# Consul Intention Create

-> **Deprecated** - This command is deprecated in Consul 1.9.0 in favor of
using the [config entry CLI command](/consul/commands/config/write). To create an
intention, create or modify a
[`service-intentions`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions) config
entry for the destination.

Command: `consul intention create`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[POST\] /v1/connect/intentions](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions#create-intention-with-id)

The `intention create` command creates or updates an L4 intention.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required                   |
| ------------------------------ |
| `intentions:write`<sup>1</sup> |

<p>
  <sup>1</sup> Intention ACL rules are specified as part of a{' '}
  <code>service</code> rule. See{' '}
  <a href="/docs/connect/intentions#intention-management-permissions">
    Intention Management Permissions
  </a>{' '}
  for more details.
</p>

## Usage

- `consul intention create [options] SRC DST`
- `consul intention create [options] -file FILE...`

`SRC` and `DST` can both take [several forms](/consul/commands/intention#source-and-destination-naming).

#### Command Options

- `-allow` - Set the action to "allow" for intentions. This is the default.

- `-deny` - Set the action to "deny" for intentions. This cannot be specified
  with `-allow`.

- `-file` - Read intention data one or more files specified by the command
  line arguments, instead of source/destination pairs.

- `-meta key=value` - Specify arbitrary KV metadata to associate with the
  intention.

- `-replace` - Replace any matching intention. The replacement is done
  atomically per intention.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

## Examples

Create an intention `web => db`:

```shell-session
$ consul intention create web db
```

Create intentions from a set of files:

```shell-session
$ consul intention create -file one.json two.json
```

Create intentions from a directory using shell expansion:

```shell-session
$ consul intention create -file intentions/*.json
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/intention/create.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Intention Create'
description: >-
  The `consul intention create` command creates and updates L4 service intentions. It was deprecated in Consul v1.9.0; use `consul config` instead.
---

# Consul Intention Create

-> **Deprecated** - This command is deprecated in Consul 1.9.0 in favor of
using the [config entry CLI command](/consul/commands/config/write). To create an
intention, create or modify a
[`service-intentions`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions) config
entry for the destination.

Command: `consul intention create`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[POST\] /v1/connect/intentions](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions#create-intention-with-id)

The `intention create` command creates or updates an L4 intention.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required                   |
| ------------------------------ |
| `intentions:write`<sup>1</sup> |

<p>
  <sup>1</sup> Intention ACL rules are specified as part of a{' '}
  <code>service</code> rule. See{' '}
  <a href="/docs/connect/intentions#intention-management-permissions">
    Intention Management Permissions
  </a>{' '}
  for more details.
</p>

## Usage

- `consul intention create [options] SRC DST`
- `consul intention create [options] -file FILE...`

`SRC` and `DST` can both take [several forms](/consul/commands/intention#source-and-destination-naming).

#### Command Options

- `-allow` - Set the action to "allow" for intentions. This is the default.

- `-deny` - Set the action to "deny" for intentions. This cannot be specified
  with `-allow`.

- `-file` - Read intention data one or more files specified by the command
  line arguments, instead of source/destination pairs.

- `-meta key=value` - Specify arbitrary KV metadata to associate with the
  intention.

- `-replace` - Replace any matching intention. The replacement is done
  atomically per intention.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

## Examples

Create an intention `web => db`:

```shell-session
$ consul intention create web db
```

Create intentions from a set of files:

```shell-session
$ consul intention create -file one.json two.json
```

Create intentions from a directory using shell expansion:

```shell-session
$ consul intention create -file intentions/*.json
```
