website/content/commands/intention/delete.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Intention Delete'
---

# Consul Intention Delete

Command: `consul intention delete`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[DELETE\] /v1/connect/intentions/exact](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/connect/intentions#delete-intention-by-name)

The `intention delete` command deletes a matching intention.

-> **Deprecated** - The one argument form of this command is deprecated in
Consul 1.9.0. Intentions no longer need IDs when represented as
[`service-intentions`](/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions) config
entries.

## Usage

Usage:

- `consul intention delete [options] SRC DST`
- `consul intention delete [options] ID`

`SRC` and `DST` can both take [several forms](/commands/intention#source-and-destination-naming).

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Delete an intention from "web" to "db" with any action:

```shell-session
$ consul intention delete web db
```

Delete an intention by unique ID:

```shell-session
$ consul intention delete 4ffed935-439c-695d-4f51-f4fc0b12a7a7
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/intention/delete.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Intention Delete'
---

# Consul Intention Delete

Command: `consul intention delete`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[DELETE\] /v1/connect/intentions/exact](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/connect/intentions#delete-intention-by-name)

The `intention delete` command deletes a matching intention.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required       |
| ------------------ |
| `intentions:write` |

-> **Deprecated** - The one argument form of this command is deprecated in
Consul 1.9.0. Intentions no longer need IDs when represented as
[`service-intentions`](/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions) config
entries.

## Usage

Usage:

- `consul intention delete [options] SRC DST`
- `consul intention delete [options] ID`

`SRC` and `DST` can both take [several forms](/commands/intention#source-and-destination-naming).

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Delete an intention from "web" to "db" with any action:

```shell-session
$ consul intention delete web db
```

Delete an intention by unique ID:

```shell-session
$ consul intention delete 4ffed935-439c-695d-4f51-f4fc0b12a7a7
```
