website/content/commands/intention/get.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Intention Get'
---

# Consul Intention Get

Command: `consul intention get`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoints: [\[GET\] /v1/connect/intentions/exact](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions#read-specific-intention-by-name), [\[GET\] /v1/connect/intentions/:uuid](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions#read-specific-intention-by-id)

The `intention get` command shows a single intention.

-> **Deprecated** - The one argument form of this command is deprecated in
Consul 1.9.0. Intentions no longer need IDs when represented as
[`service-intentions`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions) config
entries.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required                  |
| ----------------------------- |
| `intentions:read`<sup>1</sup> |

<p>
  <sup>1</sup> Intention ACL rules are specified as part of a{' '}
  <code>service</code> rule. See{' '}
  <a href="/docs/connect/intentions#intention-management-permissions">
    Intention Management Permissions
  </a>{' '}
  for more details.
</p>

## Usage

Usage:

- `consul intention get [options] SRC DST`
- `consul intention get [options] ID`

`SRC` and `DST` can both take [several forms](/consul/commands/intention#source-and-destination-naming).

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

## Examples

```shell-session
$ consul intention get web db
Source:       web
Destination:  db
Action:       deny
ID:           20edfa56-9cd4-51db-8c22-db09fdec61ef
Created At:   Thursday, 24-May-18 17:07:49 PDT
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/intention/get.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Intention Get'
description: >-
  The `consul intention get` command returns information about a single L4 service intention that authorizes services to communicate. It was deprecated in Consul v1.9.0; use `consul config` instead.
---

# Consul Intention Get

Command: `consul intention get`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoints: [\[GET\] /v1/connect/intentions/exact](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions#read-specific-intention-by-name), [\[GET\] /v1/connect/intentions/:uuid](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions#read-specific-intention-by-id)

The `intention get` command shows a single intention.

-> **Deprecated** - The one argument form of this command is deprecated in
Consul 1.9.0. Intentions no longer need IDs when represented as
[`service-intentions`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions) config
entries.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required                  |
| ----------------------------- |
| `intentions:read`<sup>1</sup> |

<p>
  <sup>1</sup> Intention ACL rules are specified as part of a{' '}
  <code>service</code> rule. See{' '}
  <a href="/docs/connect/intentions#intention-management-permissions">
    Intention Management Permissions
  </a>{' '}
  for more details.
</p>

## Usage

Usage:

- `consul intention get [options] SRC DST`
- `consul intention get [options] ID`

`SRC` and `DST` can both take [several forms](/consul/commands/intention#source-and-destination-naming).

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

## Examples

```shell-session
$ consul intention get web db
Source:       web
Destination:  db
Action:       deny
ID:           20edfa56-9cd4-51db-8c22-db09fdec61ef
Created At:   Thursday, 24-May-18 17:07:49 PDT
```
