website/content/commands/intention/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Intention'
description: >-
  The `consul intention` command interacts with service intentions to secure service mesh traffic. It exposes top-level commands for interacting with intentions. It was deprecated in Consul v1.9.0. To interact with intentions, use `consul config` instead.
---

# Consul Intention

Command: `consul intention`

The `intention` command is used to interact with Connect
[intentions](/consul/docs/connect/intentions). It exposes commands for
creating, updating, reading, deleting, checking, and managing intentions.
This command is available in Consul 1.2 and later.

Intentions are managed primarily via
[`service-intentions`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions) config
entries after Consul 1.9. Intentions may also be managed via the [HTTP
API](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions).

~> **Deprecated** - This command is deprecated in Consul 1.9.0 in favor of
using the [config entry CLI command](/consul/commands/config/write). To create an
intention, create or modify a
[`service-intentions`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions) config
entry for the destination.

## Usage

Usage: `consul intention <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul intention -h`
to view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul intention <subcommand> [options] [args]

  ...

Subcommands:
    check     Check whether a connection between two services is allowed.
    create    Create intentions for service connections.
    delete    Delete an intention.
    list      Lists all intentions.
    get       Show information about an intention.
    match     Show intentions that match a source or destination.
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Basic Examples

Create an intention to allow "web" to talk to "db":

```shell-session
$ consul intention create web db
```

Create an intention to deny "db" from initiating connections to _any_ service:

```shell-session
$ consul intention create -deny db '*'
Created: db => * (deny)
```

Test whether a "web" is allowed to connect to "db":

```shell-session
$ consul intention check web db
```

List all intentions:

```shell-session
$ consul intention list
```

Find all intentions for communicating to the "db" service:

```shell-session
$ consul intention match db
```

## Source and Destination Naming

Intention commands commonly take positional arguments referred to as `SRC` and
`DST` in the command documentation. These can take several forms:

| Format                              | Meaning                                                                                       |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<service>`                         | the named service in the current namespace                                                    |
| `*`                                 | any service in the current namespace                                                          |
| `<namespace>/<service>`             | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> the named service in a specific namespace in the default partition |
| `<namespace>/*`                     | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> any service in the specified namespace in the default partition    |
| `*/*`                               | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> any service in any namespace in the default partition              |
| `<partition>/<namespace>/<service>` | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> the named service in a specific namespace                          |
| `<partition>/<namespace>/*`         | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> any service in the specified namespace in a specific partition     |
| `<partition>/*/*`                   | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> any service in any namespace in the  a specific  partition         |

Commit message:

Docs/intentions refactor docs day 2022 (#16758)
* converted intentions conf entry to ref CT format

* set up intentions nav

* add page for intentions usage

* final intentions usage page

* final intentions overview page

* fixed old relative links

* updated diagram for overview

* updated links to intentions content

* fixed typo in updated links

* rename intentions overview page file to index

* rollback link updates to intentions overview

* fixed nav

* Updated custom HTML in API and CLI pages to MD

* applied suggestions from review to index page

* moved conf examples from usage to conf ref

* missed custom HTML section

* applied additional feedback

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

* updated headings in usage page

* renamed files and udpated nav

* updated links to new file names

* added redirects and final tweaks

* typo

---------

Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/intention/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Intention'
description: >-
  The `consul intention` command interacts with service intentions to secure service mesh traffic. It exposes top-level commands for interacting with intentions. It was deprecated in Consul v1.9.0. To interact with intentions, use `consul config` instead.
---

# Consul Intention

Command: `consul intention`

The `intention` command is used to interact with Connect
[intentions](/consul/docs/connect/intentions). It exposes commands for
creating, updating, reading, deleting, checking, and managing intentions.
This command is available in Consul 1.2 and later.

Use the 
[`service-intentions`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions) configuration entry or the [HTTP
API](/consul/api-docs/connect/intentions) to manage intentions.

~> **Deprecated** - This command is deprecated in Consul 1.9.0 in favor of
using the [config entry CLI command](/consul/commands/config/write). To create an
intention, create or modify a
[`service-intentions`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-intentions) config
entry for the destination.

## Usage

Usage: `consul intention <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul intention -h`
to view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul intention <subcommand> [options] [args]

  ...

Subcommands:
    check     Check whether a connection between two services is allowed.
    create    Create intentions for service connections.
    delete    Delete an intention.
    list      Lists all intentions.
    get       Show information about an intention.
    match     Show intentions that match a source or destination.
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Basic Examples

Create an intention to allow "web" to talk to "db":

```shell-session
$ consul intention create web db
```

Create an intention to deny "db" from initiating connections to _any_ service:

```shell-session
$ consul intention create -deny db '*'
Created: db => * (deny)
```

Test whether a "web" is allowed to connect to "db":

```shell-session
$ consul intention check web db
```

List all intentions:

```shell-session
$ consul intention list
```

Find all intentions for communicating to the "db" service:

```shell-session
$ consul intention match db
```

## Source and Destination Naming

Intention commands commonly take positional arguments referred to as `SRC` and
`DST` in the command documentation. These can take several forms:

| Format                              | Meaning                                                                                       |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `<service>`                         | the named service in the current namespace                                                    |
| `*`                                 | any service in the current namespace                                                          |
| `<namespace>/<service>`             | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> the named service in a specific namespace in the default partition |
| `<namespace>/*`                     | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> any service in the specified namespace in the default partition    |
| `*/*`                               | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> any service in any namespace in the default partition              |
| `<partition>/<namespace>/<service>` | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> the named service in a specific namespace                          |
| `<partition>/<namespace>/*`         | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> any service in the specified namespace in a specific partition     |
| `<partition>/*/*`                   | <EnterpriseAlert inline /> any service in any namespace in the  a specific  partition         |
