website/content/commands/snapshot/inspect.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Snapshot Inspect'
---

# Consul Snapshot Inspect

Command: `consul snapshot inspect`

The `snapshot inspect` command is used to inspect an atomic, point-in-time
snapshot of the state of the Consul servers which includes key/value entries,
service catalog, prepared queries, sessions, and ACLs. The snapshot is read
from the given file.

-> Typically this is used with Consul self-contained Snapshot files obtained
using the [`consul snapshot`](/consul/commands/snapshot) command or [Snapshot
API](/consul/api-docs/snapshot#generate-snapshot). If the file provided is named
`state.bin` however, the command will assume it is a raw raft snapshot in a
Consul server data directory and will attempt to read it directly. The
`state.bin` file must still be in the same directory as it's associated
`meta.json` file. This is useful for debugging data on live servers without
making a complete new snapshot via the CLI or API first.

The following fields are displayed when inspecting a snapshot:

- `ID` - A unique ID for the snapshot, only used for differentiation purposes.

- `Size` - The size of the snapshot, in bytes.

- `Index` - The Raft index of the latest log entry in the snapshot.

- `Term` - The Raft term of the latest log entry in the snapshot.

- `Version` - The snapshot format version. This only refers to the structure of
  the snapshot, not the data contained within.

- Each data type, size, and count within the read snapshot.

## Usage

Usage: `consul snapshot inspect [options] FILE`

#### Command Options

- `-kvdetails` - Provides information about space usage for KV data stored in Consul.

- `-kvdepth` - Adjusts the grouping levels of keys.
  Can only be used with `-kvdetails`.
  Default is `2`.

- `-kvfilter` - Only keys that match the specified key prefix
  are included in the response.
  Can only be used with `-kvdetails`.

- `-format` - Specifies an output format for the response.
  Specify `pretty` (default) to format the response in a human-readable form
  as shown in the examples below,
  or specify `JSON` to format the response as JSON.

## Examples

To inspect a snapshot from the file "backup.snap":

```shell-session
$ consul snapshot inspect backup.snap
 ID           2-12426-1604593650375
 Size         17228
 Index        12426
 Term         2
 Version      1

 Type                       Count      Size
 ----                       ----       ----
 KVS                        27         12.3KB
 Register                   5          3.4KB
 Index                      11         285B
 Autopilot                  1          199B
 Session                    1          199B
 CoordinateBatchUpdate      1          166B
 Tombstone                  2          146B
 FederationState            1          139B
 ChunkingState              1          12B
 ----                       ----       ----
 Total                                 16.8KB
```

To get more details for a snapshot inspection from "backup.snap":

```shell-session
$ consul snapshot inspect -kvdetails -kvdepth 3 -kvfilter vault/core backup.snap
 ID           2-12426-1604593650375
 Size         17228
 Index        12426
 Term         2
 Version      1

 Type                       Count      Size
 ----                       ----       ----
 KVS                        27         12.3KB
 Register                   5          3.4KB
 Index                      11         285B
 Autopilot                  1          199B
 Session                    1          199B
 CoordinateBatchUpdate      1          166B
 Tombstone                  2          146B
 FederationState            1          139B
 ChunkingState              1          12B
 ----                       ----       ----
 Total                                 16.8KB

 Key Name                     Count      Size
 ----                         ----       ----
 vault/core/leader            1          1.6KB
 vault/core/mounts            1          675B
 vault/core/wrapping          1          633B
 vault/core/local-mounts      1          450B
 vault/core/auth              1          423B
 vault/core/cluster           2          388B
 vault/core/keyring           1          320B
 vault/core/master            1          237B
 vault/core/seal-config       1          211B
 vault/core/hsm               1          189B
 vault/core/local-audit       1          185B
 vault/core/local-auth        1          183B
 vault/core/audit             1          179B
 vault/core/lock              1          170B
 vault/core/shamir-kek        1          159B
 ----                         ----       ----
 Total                                   5.9KB
```

Please see the [HTTP API](/consul/api-docs/snapshot) documentation for
more details about snapshot internals.

To inspect an internal snapshot directly from a Consul server data directory:

```shell-session
$ consul snapshot inspect /opt/consul/raft/snapshots/9-4600669-1618935304715/state.bin
 ID           9-4600669-1618935304715
 Size         4625420898
 Index        4600669
 Term         9
 Version      1

 Type                       Count        Size
 ----                       ----         ----
 KVS                        4089785      4.3GB
 Register                   9            5.2KB
 CoordinateBatchUpdate      3            465B
 Index                      8            224B
 Autopilot                  1            199B
 FederationState            1            139B
 ChunkingState              1            12B
 ----                       ----         ----
 Total                                   4.3GB
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/snapshot/inspect.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Snapshot Inspect'
description: |
  The `consul snapshot inspect` command outputs an atomic, point-in-time snapshot of the state of the Consul servers. Output includes key/value entries, registered services in the catalog, prepared queries, sessions, and ACLs.
---

# Consul Snapshot Inspect

Command: `consul snapshot inspect`

The `snapshot inspect` command is used to inspect an atomic, point-in-time
snapshot of the state of the Consul servers which includes key/value entries,
service catalog, prepared queries, sessions, and ACLs. The snapshot is read
from the given file.

-> Typically this is used with Consul self-contained Snapshot files obtained
using the [`consul snapshot`](/consul/commands/snapshot) command or [Snapshot
API](/consul/api-docs/snapshot#generate-snapshot). If the file provided is named
`state.bin` however, the command will assume it is a raw raft snapshot in a
Consul server data directory and will attempt to read it directly. The
`state.bin` file must still be in the same directory as it's associated
`meta.json` file. This is useful for debugging data on live servers without
making a complete new snapshot via the CLI or API first.

The following fields are displayed when inspecting a snapshot:

- `ID` - A unique ID for the snapshot, only used for differentiation purposes.

- `Size` - The size of the snapshot, in bytes.

- `Index` - The Raft index of the latest log entry in the snapshot.

- `Term` - The Raft term of the latest log entry in the snapshot.

- `Version` - The snapshot format version. This only refers to the structure of
  the snapshot, not the data contained within.

- Each data type, size, and count within the read snapshot.

## Usage

Usage: `consul snapshot inspect [options] FILE`

#### Command Options

- `-kvdetails` - Provides information about space usage for KV data stored in Consul.

- `-kvdepth` - Adjusts the grouping levels of keys.
  Can only be used with `-kvdetails`.
  Default is `2`.

- `-kvfilter` - Only keys that match the specified key prefix
  are included in the response.
  Can only be used with `-kvdetails`.

- `-format` - Specifies an output format for the response.
  Specify `pretty` (default) to format the response in a human-readable form
  as shown in the examples below,
  or specify `JSON` to format the response as JSON.

## Examples

To inspect a snapshot from the file "backup.snap":

```shell-session
$ consul snapshot inspect backup.snap
 ID           2-12426-1604593650375
 Size         17228
 Index        12426
 Term         2
 Version      1

 Type                       Count      Size
 ----                       ----       ----
 KVS                        27         12.3KB
 Register                   5          3.4KB
 Index                      11         285B
 Autopilot                  1          199B
 Session                    1          199B
 CoordinateBatchUpdate      1          166B
 Tombstone                  2          146B
 FederationState            1          139B
 ChunkingState              1          12B
 ----                       ----       ----
 Total                                 16.8KB
```

To get more details for a snapshot inspection from "backup.snap":

```shell-session
$ consul snapshot inspect -kvdetails -kvdepth 3 -kvfilter vault/core backup.snap
 ID           2-12426-1604593650375
 Size         17228
 Index        12426
 Term         2
 Version      1

 Type                       Count      Size
 ----                       ----       ----
 KVS                        27         12.3KB
 Register                   5          3.4KB
 Index                      11         285B
 Autopilot                  1          199B
 Session                    1          199B
 CoordinateBatchUpdate      1          166B
 Tombstone                  2          146B
 FederationState            1          139B
 ChunkingState              1          12B
 ----                       ----       ----
 Total                                 16.8KB

 Key Name                     Count      Size
 ----                         ----       ----
 vault/core/leader            1          1.6KB
 vault/core/mounts            1          675B
 vault/core/wrapping          1          633B
 vault/core/local-mounts      1          450B
 vault/core/auth              1          423B
 vault/core/cluster           2          388B
 vault/core/keyring           1          320B
 vault/core/master            1          237B
 vault/core/seal-config       1          211B
 vault/core/hsm               1          189B
 vault/core/local-audit       1          185B
 vault/core/local-auth        1          183B
 vault/core/audit             1          179B
 vault/core/lock              1          170B
 vault/core/shamir-kek        1          159B
 ----                         ----       ----
 Total                                   5.9KB
```

Please see the [HTTP API](/consul/api-docs/snapshot) documentation for
more details about snapshot internals.

To inspect an internal snapshot directly from a Consul server data directory:

```shell-session
$ consul snapshot inspect /opt/consul/raft/snapshots/9-4600669-1618935304715/state.bin
 ID           9-4600669-1618935304715
 Size         4625420898
 Index        4600669
 Term         9
 Version      1

 Type                       Count        Size
 ----                       ----         ----
 KVS                        4089785      4.3GB
 Register                   9            5.2KB
 CoordinateBatchUpdate      3            465B
 Index                      8            224B
 Autopilot                  1            199B
 FederationState            1            139B
 ChunkingState              1            12B
 ----                       ----         ----
 Total                                   4.3GB
```
