website/content/commands/kv/put.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: KV Put'
---

# Consul KV Put

Command: `consul kv put`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/kv/:key](/consul/api-docs/kv#create-update-key)

The `kv put` command writes the data to the given path in the KV store.

-> **Note**: When writing multiple entries at once, consider using
[`kv import`](/consul/commands/kv/import) instead. Alternatively, the
[transaction API](/consul/api-docs/txn) provides support for performing up to
64 KV operations atomically.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `key:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul kv put [options] KEY [DATA]`

#### Command Options

- `-acquire` - Obtain a lock on the key. If the key does not exist, this
  operation will create the key and obtain the lock. The session must already
  exist and be specified via the -session flag. The default value is false.

- `-base64` - Treat the data as base 64 encoded. The default value is false.

- `-cas` - Perform a Check-And-Set operation. Specifying this value also
  requires the -modify-index flag to be set. The default value is false.

- `-flags=<int>` - Unsigned integer value to assign to this KV pair. This
  value is not read by Consul, so clients can use this value however makes sense
  for their use case. The default value is 0 (no flags).

- `-modify-index=<int>` - Unsigned integer representing the ModifyIndex of the
  key. This is used in combination with the -cas flag.

- `-release` - Forfeit the lock on the key at the given path. This requires the
  -session flag to be set. The key must be held by the session in order to be
  unlocked. The default value is false.

- `-session=<string>` - User-defined identifier for this session as a string.
  This is commonly used with the -acquire and -release operations to build
  robust locking, but it can be set on any key. The default value is empty (no
  session).

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

To insert a value of "5" for the key named "redis/config/connections" in the
KV store:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put redis/config/connections 5
Success! Data written to: redis/config/connections
```

If no data is specified, the key will be created with empty data:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put redis/config/connections
Success! Data written to: redis/config/connections
```

!> **Be careful of overwriting data!** The above operation would overwrite
any existing value at the key to the empty value.

### Base64 Encoded Values

If the `-base64` flag is set, the given data will be Base64-decoded before writing:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put -base64 foo/encoded aGVsbG8gd29ybGQK
Success! Data written to: foo/encoded
```

### Longer or Sensitive Values

For longer or sensitive values, it is possible to read from a file by
supplying its path prefixed with the `@` symbol:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put redis/config/password @password.txt
Success! Data written to: redis/config/password
```

Or read values from stdin by specifying the `-` symbol:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ echo "5" | consul kv put redis/config/connections -
Success! Data written to: redis/config/connections
```

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put redis/config/connections -
5
<CTRL+D>
Success! Data written to: redis/config/connections
```

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put leaderboard/scores - <<EOF
{
  "user-a": 100,
  "user-b": 250,
  "user-c": 75
}
EOF
Success! Data written to: leaderboard/scores
```

~> **Warning**: For secret and sensitive values, you should consider using a
secret management solution like **[HashiCorp's Vault](/vault/tutorials/secrets-management/static-secrets)**.
While it is possible to encrypt data before writing it to Consul's KV store,
Consul provides no built-in support for encryption at-rest.

### Atomic Check-And-Set (CAS)

To only update a key if it has not been modified since a given index, specify
the `-cas` and `-modify-index` flags:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv get -detailed redis/config/connections | grep ModifyIndex
ModifyIndex      456

$ consul kv put -cas -modify-index=123 redis/config/connections 10
Error! Did not write to redis/config/connections: CAS failed

$ consul kv put -cas -modify-index=456 redis/config/connections 10
Success! Data written to: redis/config/connections
```

### Locking Primitives

To create or tune a lock, use the `-acquire` and `-session` flags. The session must already exist (this command will not create it or manage it):

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put -acquire -session=abc123 redis/lock/update
Success! Lock acquired on: redis/lock/update
```

When you are finished, release the lock:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put -release -session=acb123 redis/lock/update
Success! Lock released on: redis/lock/update
```

~> **Warning!** If you are trying to build a locking mechanism with these
low-level primitives, you may want to look at the [<tt>consul
lock</tt>](/consul/commands/lock) command. It provides higher-level
functionality without exposing the internal APIs of Consul.

### Flags

To set user-defined flags on the entry, use the `-flags` option. These flags
are completely controlled by the user and have no special meaning to Consul:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put -flags=42 redis/config/password s3cr3t
Success! Data written to: redis/config/password
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/kv/put.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: KV Put'
description: >-
  The `consul kv put` command writes data to Consul's key/value store.
---

# Consul KV Put

Command: `consul kv put`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/kv/:key](/consul/api-docs/kv#create-update-key)

The `kv put` command writes the data to the given path in the KV store.

-> **Note**: When writing multiple entries at once, consider using
[`kv import`](/consul/commands/kv/import) instead. Alternatively, the
[transaction API](/consul/api-docs/txn) provides support for performing up to
64 KV operations atomically.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `key:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul kv put [options] KEY [DATA]`

#### Command Options

- `-acquire` - Obtain a lock on the key. If the key does not exist, this
  operation will create the key and obtain the lock. The session must already
  exist and be specified via the -session flag. The default value is false.

- `-base64` - Treat the data as base 64 encoded. The default value is false.

- `-cas` - Perform a Check-And-Set operation. Specifying this value also
  requires the -modify-index flag to be set. The default value is false.

- `-flags=<int>` - Unsigned integer value to assign to this KV pair. This
  value is not read by Consul, so clients can use this value however makes sense
  for their use case. The default value is 0 (no flags).

- `-modify-index=<int>` - Unsigned integer representing the ModifyIndex of the
  key. This is used in combination with the -cas flag.

- `-release` - Forfeit the lock on the key at the given path. This requires the
  -session flag to be set. The key must be held by the session in order to be
  unlocked. The default value is false.

- `-session=<string>` - User-defined identifier for this session as a string.
  This is commonly used with the -acquire and -release operations to build
  robust locking, but it can be set on any key. The default value is empty (no
  session).

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

To insert a value of "5" for the key named "redis/config/connections" in the
KV store:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put redis/config/connections 5
Success! Data written to: redis/config/connections
```

If no data is specified, the key will be created with empty data:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put redis/config/connections
Success! Data written to: redis/config/connections
```

!> **Be careful of overwriting data!** The above operation would overwrite
any existing value at the key to the empty value.

### Base64 Encoded Values

If the `-base64` flag is set, the given data will be Base64-decoded before writing:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put -base64 foo/encoded aGVsbG8gd29ybGQK
Success! Data written to: foo/encoded
```

### Longer or Sensitive Values

For longer or sensitive values, it is possible to read from a file by
supplying its path prefixed with the `@` symbol:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put redis/config/password @password.txt
Success! Data written to: redis/config/password
```

Or read values from stdin by specifying the `-` symbol:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ echo "5" | consul kv put redis/config/connections -
Success! Data written to: redis/config/connections
```

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put redis/config/connections -
5
<CTRL+D>
Success! Data written to: redis/config/connections
```

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put leaderboard/scores - <<EOF
{
  "user-a": 100,
  "user-b": 250,
  "user-c": 75
}
EOF
Success! Data written to: leaderboard/scores
```

~> **Warning**: For secret and sensitive values, you should consider using a
secret management solution like **[HashiCorp's Vault](/vault/tutorials/secrets-management/static-secrets)**.
While it is possible to encrypt data before writing it to Consul's KV store,
Consul provides no built-in support for encryption at-rest.

### Atomic Check-And-Set (CAS)

To only update a key if it has not been modified since a given index, specify
the `-cas` and `-modify-index` flags:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv get -detailed redis/config/connections | grep ModifyIndex
ModifyIndex      456

$ consul kv put -cas -modify-index=123 redis/config/connections 10
Error! Did not write to redis/config/connections: CAS failed

$ consul kv put -cas -modify-index=456 redis/config/connections 10
Success! Data written to: redis/config/connections
```

### Locking Primitives

To create or tune a lock, use the `-acquire` and `-session` flags. The session must already exist (this command will not create it or manage it):

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put -acquire -session=abc123 redis/lock/update
Success! Lock acquired on: redis/lock/update
```

When you are finished, release the lock:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put -release -session=acb123 redis/lock/update
Success! Lock released on: redis/lock/update
```

~> **Warning!** If you are trying to build a locking mechanism with these
low-level primitives, you may want to look at the [<tt>consul
lock</tt>](/consul/commands/lock) command. It provides higher-level
functionality without exposing the internal APIs of Consul.

### Flags

To set user-defined flags on the entry, use the `-flags` option. These flags
are completely controlled by the user and have no special meaning to Consul:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul kv put -flags=42 redis/config/password s3cr3t
Success! Data written to: redis/config/password
```
