website/content/docs/connect/ca/vault.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Connect - Certificate Management
description: >-
  Consul can be used with Vault to manage and sign certificates. The Vault CA
  provider uses the Vault PKI secrets engine to generate and sign certificates.
---

# Vault as a Connect CA

Consul can be used with [Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io) to
manage and sign certificates.
The Vault CA provider uses the
[Vault PKI secrets engine](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/pki)
to generate and sign certificates.

This page documents the specifics of the Vault CA provider.
Please read the [certificate management overview](/docs/connect/ca)
page first to understand how Consul manages certificates with configurable
CA providers.

-> **NOTE**: A Learn [tutorial](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/vault-pki-consul-connect-ca?in=consul/vault-secure) is available to help you configure Vault as the Consul Connect service mesh Certification Authority.

## Requirements

Prior to using Vault as a CA provider for Consul, the following requirements
must be met:

- **Vault 0.10.3 or later.** Consul uses URI SANs in the PKI engine which
  were introduced in Vault 0.10.3. Prior versions of Vault are not
  compatible with Connect.

## Configuration

The Vault CA is enabled by setting the CA provider to `"vault"` and
setting the required configuration values.

The configuration may either be provided in the agent's configuration file using
the [`ca_provider`] and [`ca_config`] options, or configured using the
[`/connect/ca/configuration`] API endpoint.

Example configurations are shown below:

<CodeTabs heading="Connect CA configuration" tabs={["Agent configuration", "API"]}>

<CodeBlockConfig filename="/etc/consul.d/config.hcl" highlight="4,6-9">

```hcl
# ...
connect {
  enabled = true
  ca_provider = "vault"
  ca_config {
    address = "http://localhost:8200"
    token = "..."
    root_pki_path = "connect-root"
    intermediate_pki_path = "connect-intermediate"
  }
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

<CodeBlockConfig highlight="2,4-7">

```json
{
  "Provider": "vault",
  "Config": {
    "Address": "http://localhost:8200",
    "Token": "<token>",
    "RootPKIPath": "connect-root",
    "IntermediatePKIPath": "connect-intermediate"
  }
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</CodeTabs>

The configuration options are listed below.

-> **NOTE**: The first key is the value used in API calls, and the second key
   (after the `/`) is used if you are adding the configuration to the agent's
   configuration file.

- `Address` / `address` (`string: <required>`) - The address of the Vault
  server.

- `Token` / `token` (`string: ""`) - A token for accessing Vault.
  This is write-only and will not be exposed when reading the CA configuration.
  This token must have [proper privileges](#vault-acl-policies) for the PKI
  paths configured. In Consul 1.8.5 and later, if the token has the [renewable](https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/auth/token#renewable)
  flag set, Consul will attempt to renew its lease periodically after half the
  duration has expired.

  !> **Warning:** You must either provide a token or configure an auth method below.

- `AuthMethod` / `auth_method` (`map: nil`) - Vault auth method to use for logging in to Vault.
  Please see [Vault Auth Methods](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth) for more information
  on how to configure individual auth methods. If auth method is provided, Consul will obtain
  a new token from Vault when the token can no longer be renewed.

   - `Type`/ `type` (`string: ""`) - The type of Vault auth method.

   - `MountPath`/ `mount_path` (`string: <AuthMethod.Type>`) - The mount path of the auth method.
      If not provided the auth method type will be used as the mount path.

   - `Params`/`params` (`map: nil`) - The parameters to configure the auth method. Please see
    [Vault Auth Methods](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth) for information on how to configure the
    auth method you wish to use. If using the Kubernetes auth method,
    Consul will read the service account token from the
    default mount path `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token` if the `jwt` parameter
    is not provided.


- `RootPKIPath` / `root_pki_path` (`string: <required>`) - The path to
  a PKI secrets engine for the root certificate.

  If the path does not
  exist, Consul will mount a new PKI secrets engine at the specified path with the
  `RootCertTTL` value as the root certificate's TTL. If the `RootCertTTL` is not set,
  a [`max_lease_ttl`](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/system/mounts#max_lease_ttl)
  of 87600 hours, or 10 years is applied by default as of Consul 1.11 and later. Prior to Consul 1.11,
  the root certificate TTL was set to 8760 hour, or 1 year, and was not configurable.
  The root certificate will expire at the end of the specified period.

  When WAN Federation is enabled, each secondary datacenter must use the same Vault cluster and share the same `root_pki_path`
  with the primary datacenter.

  To use an intermediate certificate as the primary CA in Consul initialize the
  `RootPKIPath` in Vault with a PEM bundle. The first certificate in the bundle
  must be the intermediate certificate that Consul will use as the primary CA.
  The last certificate in the bundle must be a root certificate. The bundle
  must contain a valid chain, where each certificate is followed by the certificate
  that authorized it.

- `IntermediatePKIPath` / `intermediate_pki_path` (`string: <required>`) -
  The path to a PKI secrets engine for the generated intermediate certificate.
  This certificate will be signed by the configured root PKI path. If this
  path does not exist, Consul will attempt to mount and configure this
  automatically.

  When WAN Federation is enabled, every secondary
  datacenter must specify a unique `intermediate_pki_path`.

- `CAFile` / `ca_file` (`string: ""`) - Specifies an optional path to the CA
  certificate used for Vault communication. If unspecified, this will fallback
  to the default system CA bundle, which varies by OS and version.

- `CAPath` / `ca_path` (`string: ""`) - Specifies an optional path to a folder
  containing CA certificates to be used for Vault communication. If
  unspecified, this will fallback to the default system CA bundle, which
  varies by OS and version.

- `CertFile` / `cert_file` (`string: ""`) - Specifies the path to the
  certificate used for Vault communication. If this is set, then you also need to
  set `key_file`.

- `KeyFile` / `key_file` (`string: ""`) - Specifies the path to the private
  key used for Vault communication. If this is set, then you also need to set
  `cert_file`.

- `TLSServerName` / `tls_server_name` (`string: ""`) - Specifies an optional
  string used to set the SNI host when connecting to Vault via TLS.

- `TLSSkipVerify` / `tls_skip_verify` (`bool: false`) - Specifies if SSL peer
  validation should be enforced.

- `Namespace` / `namespace` (`string: <optional>`) - The Vault Namespace that
  the `Token` and PKI Certificates are a part of. Vault Namespaces are a Vault
  Enterprise feature. Added in Consul 1.11.0

@include 'http_api_connect_ca_common_options.mdx'

## Root and Intermediate PKI Paths

The Vault CA provider uses two separately configured
[PKI secrets engines](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/pki)
for managing Connect certificates.

The `RootPKIPath` is the PKI engine for the root certificate. Consul will
use this root certificate to sign the intermediate certificate. Consul will
never attempt to write or modify any data within the root PKI path.

The `IntermediatePKIPath` is the PKI engine used for storing the intermediate
signed with the root certificate. The intermediate is used to sign all leaf
certificates and Consul may periodically generate new intermediates for
automatic rotation. Therefore, Consul requires write access to this path.

If either path does not exist, then Consul will attempt to mount and
initialize it. This requires additional privileges by the Vault token in use.
If the paths already exist, Consul will use them as configured.

## Vault ACL Policies

### Vault Managed PKI Paths

The following Vault policy allows Consul to use pre-existing PKI paths in Vault.
Consul is granted read-only access to the PKI mount points and the Root CA, but is
granted full control of the Intermediate or Leaf CA for Connect clients.

In this example the `RootPKIPath` is `connect_root` and the `IntermediatePKIPath`
is `connect_inter`. These values should be updated for your environment.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="vault-managed-pki-policy.hcl">

```hcl
# Existing PKI Mounts
path "/sys/mounts" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect_root" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect_inter" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}

path "/connect_root/" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}

path "/connect_root/root/sign-intermediate" {
  capabilities = [ "update" ]
}

path "/connect_inter/*" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "auth/token/renew-self" {
	capabilities = [ "update" ]
}

path "auth/token/lookup-self" {
	capabilities = [ "read" ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

### Consul Managed PKI Paths

The following Vault policy allows Consul to create and manage the PKI paths in Vault.
Consul is granted the ability to create the PKI mount points and given full
control of the Root and Intermediate or Leaf CA for Connect clients.

In this example the `RootPKIPath` is `connect_root` and the `IntermediatePKIPath`
is `connect_inter`. These values should be updated for your environment.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="consul-managed-pki-policy.hcl">

```hcl
# Consul Managed PKI Mounts
path "/sys/mounts" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect_root" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect_inter" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/connect_root/*" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/connect_inter/*" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

<!-- Reference style links -->
[`ca_config`]: /docs/agent/config/config-files#connect_ca_config
[`ca_provider`]: /docs/agent/config/config-files#connect_ca_provider
[`/connect/ca/configuration`]: /api-docs/connect/ca#update-ca-configuration

Commit message:

Support vault namespaces in connect CA (#12904)
* Support vault namespaces in connect CA

Follow on to some missed items from #12655

From an internal ticket "Support standard "Vault namespace in the
path" semantics for Connect Vault CA Provider"

Vault allows the namespace to be specified as a prefix in the path of
a PKI definition, but our usage of the Vault API includes calls that
don't support a namespaced key. In particular the sys.* family of
calls simply appends the key, instead of prefixing the namespace in
front of the path.

Unfortunately it is difficult to reliably parse a path with a
namespace; only vault knows what namespaces are present, and the '/'
separator can be inside a key name, as well as separating path
elements. This is in use in the wild; for example
'dc1/intermediate-key' is a relatively common naming schema.

Instead we add two new fields: RootPKINamespace and
IntermediatePKINamespace, which are the absolute namespace paths
'prefixed' in front of the respective PKI Paths.

Signed-off-by: Mark Anderson <manderson@hashicorp.com>

website/content/docs/connect/ca/vault.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Connect - Certificate Management
description: >-
  Consul can be used with Vault to manage and sign certificates. The Vault CA
  provider uses the Vault PKI secrets engine to generate and sign certificates.
---

# Vault as a Connect CA

Consul can be used with [Vault](https://www.vaultproject.io) to
manage and sign certificates.
The Vault CA provider uses the
[Vault PKI secrets engine](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/pki)
to generate and sign certificates.

This page documents the specifics of the Vault CA provider.
Please read the [certificate management overview](/docs/connect/ca)
page first to understand how Consul manages certificates with configurable
CA providers.

-> **NOTE**: A Learn [tutorial](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/vault-pki-consul-connect-ca?in=consul/vault-secure) is available to help you configure Vault as the Consul Connect service mesh Certification Authority.

## Requirements

Prior to using Vault as a CA provider for Consul, the following requirements
must be met:

- **Vault 0.10.3 or later.** Consul uses URI SANs in the PKI engine which
  were introduced in Vault 0.10.3. Prior versions of Vault are not
  compatible with Connect.

## Configuration

The Vault CA is enabled by setting the CA provider to `"vault"` and
setting the required configuration values.

The configuration may either be provided in the agent's configuration file using
the [`ca_provider`] and [`ca_config`] options, or configured using the
[`/connect/ca/configuration`] API endpoint.

Example configurations are shown below:

<CodeTabs heading="Connect CA configuration" tabs={["Agent configuration", "API"]}>

<CodeBlockConfig filename="/etc/consul.d/config.hcl" highlight="4,6-9">

```hcl
# ...
connect {
  enabled = true
  ca_provider = "vault"
  ca_config {
    address = "http://localhost:8200"
    token = "..."
    root_pki_path = "connect-root"
    intermediate_pki_path = "connect-intermediate"
  }
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

<CodeBlockConfig highlight="2,4-7">

```json
{
  "Provider": "vault",
  "Config": {
    "Address": "http://localhost:8200",
    "Token": "<token>",
    "RootPKIPath": "connect-root",
    "IntermediatePKIPath": "connect-intermediate"
  }
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

</CodeTabs>

The configuration options are listed below.

-> **NOTE**: The first key is the value used in API calls, and the second key
   (after the `/`) is used if you are adding the configuration to the agent's
   configuration file.

- `Address` / `address` (`string: <required>`) - The address of the Vault
  server.

- `Token` / `token` (`string: ""`) - A token for accessing Vault.
  This is write-only and will not be exposed when reading the CA configuration.
  This token must have [proper privileges](#vault-acl-policies) for the PKI
  paths configured. In Consul 1.8.5 and later, if the token has the [renewable](https://www.vaultproject.io/api-docs/auth/token#renewable)
  flag set, Consul will attempt to renew its lease periodically after half the
  duration has expired.

  !> **Warning:** You must either provide a token or configure an auth method below.

- `AuthMethod` / `auth_method` (`map: nil`) - Vault auth method to use for logging in to Vault.
  Please see [Vault Auth Methods](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth) for more information
  on how to configure individual auth methods. If auth method is provided, Consul will obtain
  a new token from Vault when the token can no longer be renewed.

   - `Type`/ `type` (`string: ""`) - The type of Vault auth method.

   - `MountPath`/ `mount_path` (`string: <AuthMethod.Type>`) - The mount path of the auth method.
      If not provided the auth method type will be used as the mount path.

   - `Params`/`params` (`map: nil`) - The parameters to configure the auth method. Please see
    [Vault Auth Methods](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/auth) for information on how to configure the
    auth method you wish to use. If using the Kubernetes auth method,
    Consul will read the service account token from the
    default mount path `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/token` if the `jwt` parameter
    is not provided.


- `RootPKIPath` / `root_pki_path` (`string: <required>`) - The path to
  a PKI secrets engine for the root certificate.

  If the path does not
  exist, Consul will mount a new PKI secrets engine at the specified path with the
  `RootCertTTL` value as the root certificate's TTL. If the `RootCertTTL` is not set,
  a [`max_lease_ttl`](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/system/mounts#max_lease_ttl)
  of 87600 hours, or 10 years is applied by default as of Consul 1.11 and later. Prior to Consul 1.11,
  the root certificate TTL was set to 8760 hour, or 1 year, and was not configurable.
  The root certificate will expire at the end of the specified period.

  When WAN Federation is enabled, each secondary datacenter must use the same Vault cluster and share the same `root_pki_path`
  with the primary datacenter.

  To use an intermediate certificate as the primary CA in Consul initialize the
  `RootPKIPath` in Vault with a PEM bundle. The first certificate in the bundle
  must be the intermediate certificate that Consul will use as the primary CA.
  The last certificate in the bundle must be a root certificate. The bundle
  must contain a valid chain, where each certificate is followed by the certificate
  that authorized it.

- `RootPKINamespace` / `root_pki_namespace` (`string: <optional>`) - The absolute namespace
  that the `RootPKIPath` is in. Setting this overrides the `Namespace` option for the `RootPKIPath`. Introduced in 1.12.1

- `IntermediatePKIPath` / `intermediate_pki_path` (`string: <required>`) -
  The path to a PKI secrets engine for the generated intermediate certificate.
  This certificate will be signed by the configured root PKI path. If this
  path does not exist, Consul will attempt to mount and configure this
  automatically.

  When WAN Federation is enabled, every secondary
  datacenter must specify a unique `intermediate_pki_path`.

- `IntermediatePKINamespace` / `intermedial_pki_namespace` (`string: <optional>`) - The absolute namespace
  that the `IntermediatePKIPath` is in. Setting this overrides the `Namespace` option for the `IntermediatePKIPath`. Introduced in 1.12.1

- `CAFile` / `ca_file` (`string: ""`) - Specifies an optional path to the CA
  certificate used for Vault communication. If unspecified, this will fallback
  to the default system CA bundle, which varies by OS and version.

- `CAPath` / `ca_path` (`string: ""`) - Specifies an optional path to a folder
  containing CA certificates to be used for Vault communication. If
  unspecified, this will fallback to the default system CA bundle, which
  varies by OS and version.

- `CertFile` / `cert_file` (`string: ""`) - Specifies the path to the
  certificate used for Vault communication. If this is set, then you also need to
  set `key_file`.

- `KeyFile` / `key_file` (`string: ""`) - Specifies the path to the private
  key used for Vault communication. If this is set, then you also need to set
  `cert_file`.

- `TLSServerName` / `tls_server_name` (`string: ""`) - Specifies an optional
  string used to set the SNI host when connecting to Vault via TLS.

- `TLSSkipVerify` / `tls_skip_verify` (`bool: false`) - Specifies if SSL peer
  validation should be enforced.

- `Namespace` / `namespace` (`string: <optional>`) - The Vault Namespace that
  the `Token` and PKI Certificates are a part of. Vault Namespaces are a Vault
  Enterprise feature. Added in Consul 1.11.0

@include 'http_api_connect_ca_common_options.mdx'

## Root and Intermediate PKI Paths

The Vault CA provider uses two separately configured
[PKI secrets engines](https://www.vaultproject.io/docs/secrets/pki)
for managing Connect certificates.

The `RootPKIPath` is the PKI engine for the root certificate. Consul will
use this root certificate to sign the intermediate certificate. Consul will
never attempt to write or modify any data within the root PKI path.

The `IntermediatePKIPath` is the PKI engine used for storing the intermediate
signed with the root certificate. The intermediate is used to sign all leaf
certificates and Consul may periodically generate new intermediates for
automatic rotation. Therefore, Consul requires write access to this path.

If either path does not exist, then Consul will attempt to mount and
initialize it. This requires additional privileges by the Vault token in use.
If the paths already exist, Consul will use them as configured.

## Vault ACL Policies

### Vault Managed PKI Paths

The following Vault policy allows Consul to use pre-existing PKI paths in Vault.
Consul is granted read-only access to the PKI mount points and the Root CA, but is
granted full control of the Intermediate or Leaf CA for Connect clients.

In this example the `RootPKIPath` is `connect_root` and the `IntermediatePKIPath`
is `connect_inter`. These values should be updated for your environment.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="vault-managed-pki-policy.hcl">

```hcl
# Existing PKI Mounts
path "/sys/mounts" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect_root" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect_inter" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}

path "/connect_root/" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}

path "/connect_root/root/sign-intermediate" {
  capabilities = [ "update" ]
}

path "/connect_inter/*" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "auth/token/renew-self" {
	capabilities = [ "update" ]
}

path "auth/token/lookup-self" {
	capabilities = [ "read" ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

### Consul Managed PKI Paths

The following Vault policy allows Consul to create and manage the PKI paths in Vault.
Consul is granted the ability to create the PKI mount points and given full
control of the Root and Intermediate or Leaf CA for Connect clients.

In this example the `RootPKIPath` is `connect_root` and the `IntermediatePKIPath`
is `connect_inter`. These values should be updated for your environment.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="consul-managed-pki-policy.hcl">

```hcl
# Consul Managed PKI Mounts
path "/sys/mounts" {
  capabilities = [ "read" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect_root" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/sys/mounts/connect_inter" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/connect_root/*" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}

path "/connect_inter/*" {
  capabilities = [ "create", "read", "update", "delete", "list" ]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

<!-- Reference style links -->
[`ca_config`]: /docs/agent/config/config-files#connect_ca_config
[`ca_provider`]: /docs/agent/config/config-files#connect_ca_provider
[`/connect/ca/configuration`]: /api-docs/connect/ca#update-ca-configuration
