website/content/commands/connect/ca.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Connect CA'
description: >
  The connect CA subcommand is used to view and modify the Connect Certificate
  Authority (CA) configuration.
---

# Consul Connect Certificate Authority (CA)

Command: `consul connect ca`

The CA connect command is used to interact with Consul Connect's Certificate Authority
subsystem. The command can be used to view or modify the current CA configuration. See the
[Connect CA documentation](/docs/connect/ca) for more information.

```text
Usage: consul connect ca <subcommand> [options] [args]

  This command has subcommands for interacting with Consul Connect's
  Certificate Authority (CA).

  Here are some simple examples, and more detailed examples are available
  in the subcommands or the documentation.

  Get the configuration:

      $ consul connect ca get-config

  Update the configuration:

      $ consul connect ca set-config -config-file ca.json

  For more examples, ask for subcommand help or view the documentation.

Subcommands:
    get-config    Display the current Connect Certificate Authority (CA) configuration
    set-config    Modify the current Connect CA configuration
```

## get-config

This command displays the current CA configuration.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required     |
| ---------------- |
| `operator:write` |

Usage: `consul connect ca get-config [options]`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/connect/ca/configuration](/api-docs/connect/ca#get-ca-configuration)

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

The output looks like this:

```
{
	"Provider": "consul",
	"Config": {},
	"CreateIndex": 5,
	"ModifyIndex": 197
}
```

## set-config

Modifies the current CA configuration. If this results in a new root certificate
being used, the [Root Rotation](/docs/connect/ca#root-certificate-rotation) process
will be triggered.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required     |
| ---------------- |
| `operator:write` |

Usage: `consul connect ca set-config [options]`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/connect/ca/configuration](/api-docs/connect/ca#update-ca-configuration)

The output looks like this:

```
Configuration updated!
```

The return code will indicate success or failure.

#### Command Options

- `-config-file` - (required) Specifies a JSON-formatted file to use for the new configuration.
  The format of this config file matches the request payload documented in the
  [Update CA Configuration API](/api-docs/connect/ca#update-ca-configuration).

- `-force-without-cross-signing` `(bool: <optional>)` - Indicates that the CA change
  should be forced to complete even if the current CA doesn't support cross
  signing. Changing root without cross-signing may cause temporary connection
  failures until the rollout completes. See [Forced Rotation Without
  Cross-Signing](/docs/connect/ca#forced-rotation-without-cross-signing)
  for more detail.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

Commit message:

docs: clarify Vault CA provider permissions needed (#15478)

website/content/commands/connect/ca.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Connect CA'
description: >
  The connect CA subcommand is used to view and modify the Connect Certificate
  Authority (CA) configuration.
---

# Consul Connect Certificate Authority (CA)

Command: `consul connect ca`

The CA connect command is used to interact with Consul Connect's Certificate Authority
subsystem. The command can be used to view or modify the current CA configuration. See the
[Connect CA documentation](/docs/connect/ca) for more information.

```text
Usage: consul connect ca <subcommand> [options] [args]

  This command has subcommands for interacting with Consul Connect's
  Certificate Authority (CA).

  Here are some simple examples, and more detailed examples are available
  in the subcommands or the documentation.

  Get the configuration:

      $ consul connect ca get-config

  Update the configuration:

      $ consul connect ca set-config -config-file ca.json

  For more examples, ask for subcommand help or view the documentation.

Subcommands:
    get-config    Display the current Connect Certificate Authority (CA) configuration
    set-config    Modify the current Connect CA configuration
```

## get-config

This command displays the current CA configuration.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required     |
| ---------------- |
| `operator:write` |

Usage: `consul connect ca get-config [options]`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/connect/ca/configuration](/api-docs/connect/ca#get-ca-configuration)

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

The output looks like this:

```
{
	"Provider": "consul",
	"Config": {},
	"CreateIndex": 5,
	"ModifyIndex": 197
}
```

## set-config

Modifies the current CA configuration. If this results in a new root certificate
being used, the [Root Rotation](/docs/connect/ca#root-certificate-rotation) process
will be triggered.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required     |
| ---------------- |
| `operator:write` |

Usage: `consul connect ca set-config [options]`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/connect/ca/configuration](/api-docs/connect/ca#update-ca-configuration)

The output looks like this:

```
Configuration updated!
```

The return code will indicate success or failure.

~> **If currently using Vault CA provider:**
   If you intend to change the CA provider from Vault to another,
   or to change the Vault provider's [`RootPKIPath`](/docs/connect/ca/vault#rootpkipath),
   you must temporarily elevate the privileges of the Vault token
   or auth method in use as described in the
   [Vault CA provider documentation](/docs/connect/ca/vault#additional-vault-acl-policies-for-sensitive-operations).

#### Command Options

- `-config-file` - (required) Specifies a JSON-formatted file to use for the new configuration.
  The format of this config file matches the request payload documented in the
  [Update CA Configuration API](/api-docs/connect/ca#update-ca-configuration).

- `-force-without-cross-signing` `(bool: <optional>)` - Indicates that the CA change
  should be forced to complete even if the current CA doesn't support root cross-signing.

  ~> **Caution:** Use of this flag will cause temporary connection failures
  until service mesh proxies and/or Consul client agents receive a new certificate
  that establishes trust with the new root.
  Do not use this flag unless you are sure you need it.
  Refer to [Forced Rotation Without Cross-Signing](/docs/connect/ca#forced-rotation-without-cross-signing)
  for more detail.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'
