website/content/commands/connect/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Connect'
---

# Consul Connect

Command: `consul connect`

The `connect` command is used to interact with Consul
[Connect](/consul/docs/connect/intentions) subsystems. It exposes commands for
running the built-in mTLS proxy and viewing/updating the Certificate Authority
(CA) configuration. This command is available in Consul 1.2 and later.

## Usage

Usage: `consul connect <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul connect -h` to view
the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul connect <subcommand> [options] [args]

  This command has subcommands for interacting with Consul Connect.

  Here are some simple examples, and more detailed examples are available
  in the subcommands or the documentation.

  Run the built-in Connect mTLS proxy

      $ consul connect proxy

  For more examples, ask for subcommand help or view the documentation.

Subcommands:
    ca                  Interact with the Consul Connect Certificate Authority (CA)
    envoy               Runs or Configures Envoy as a Connect proxy
    expose              Expose a Connect-enabled service through an Ingress gateway
    proxy               Runs a Consul Connect proxy
    redirect-traffic    Applies iptables rules for traffic redirection
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/connect/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Connect'
description: >-
  The `consul connect` command interacts with Consul's service mesh features. It exposes top-level commands for interacting with the internal CA and service mesh proxies, exposing services through ingress gateways, and applying iptables rules.
---

# Consul Connect

Command: `consul connect`

The `connect` command is used to interact with Consul
[Connect](/consul/docs/connect/intentions) subsystems. It exposes commands for
running the built-in mTLS proxy and viewing/updating the Certificate Authority
(CA) configuration. This command is available in Consul 1.2 and later.

## Usage

Usage: `consul connect <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul connect -h` to view
the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul connect <subcommand> [options] [args]

  This command has subcommands for interacting with Consul Connect.

  Here are some simple examples, and more detailed examples are available
  in the subcommands or the documentation.

  Run the built-in Connect mTLS proxy

      $ consul connect proxy

  For more examples, ask for subcommand help or view the documentation.

Subcommands:
    ca                  Interact with the Consul Connect Certificate Authority (CA)
    envoy               Runs or Configures Envoy as a Connect proxy
    expose              Expose a Connect-enabled service through an Ingress gateway
    proxy               Runs a Consul Connect proxy
    redirect-traffic    Applies iptables rules for traffic redirection
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.
