website/content/commands/connect/redirect-traffic.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Connect Redirect Traffic'
sidebar_title: redirect-traffic
description: >
  The connect redirect-traffic subcommand is used to apply traffic redirection rules
  when using Connect in Transparent Proxy mode.
---

# Consul Connect Redirect Traffic

Command: `consul connect redirect-traffic`

The connect redirect-traffic command is used to apply traffic redirection rules to enforce
all traffic to go through the [Envoy proxy](https://envoyproxy.io) when using [Consul
Service Mesh](/docs/connect/) in the Transparent Proxy mode.

This command requires `iptables` command line utility to be installed,
and as a result, this command can currently only run on linux.
The user running the command needs to have `NET_ADMIN` capability.

By default, this command will apply rules to intercept and redirect all inbound and outbound
TCP traffic to the Envoy's inbound and outbound ports accordingly.

When `proxy-id` is specified, additional exclusion rules will be applied based on proxy's
configuration stored in the local Consul agent. This includes redirecting to the proxy's
inbound and outbound ports specified in the service registration.

## Usage

Usage: `consul connect redirect-traffic [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-node-name` - The node name where the proxy service is registered. It requires proxy-id to be specified. This is needed if running in an environment without client agents.

- `-consul-dns-ip` - The IP address of the Consul DNS resolver. If provided, DNS queries will be redirected to the provided IP address for name resolution.

- `-proxy-id` - The [proxy service](/docs/connect/registration/service-registration) ID.
  This service ID must already be registered with the local agent.

- `-proxy-inbound-port` - The inbound port that the proxy is listening on.

- `-proxy-outbound-port` - The outbound port that the proxy is listening on. When not provided, 15001 is used by default.

- `-proxy-uid` - The user ID of the proxy to exclude from traffic redirection.

- `-exclude-inbound-port` - Inbound port to exclude from traffic redirection. May be provided multiple times.

- `-exclude-outbound-cidr` -  Outbound CIDR to exclude from traffic redirection. May be provided multiple times.

- `-exclude-outbound-port` - Outbound port to exclude from traffic redirection. May be provided multiple times.

- `-exclude-uid` - Additional user ID to exclude from traffic redirection. May be provided multiple times.

- `-netns` - The Linux network namespace where traffic redirection rules should apply.
  This must be a path to the network namespace, e.g. /var/run/netns/foo.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

## Examples

### Basic Rules

The default traffic redirection rules can be applied with:

```shell-session
$ consul connect redirect-traffic \
  -proxy-uid 1234 \
  -proxy-inbound-port 20000
```

### Using Registered Proxy Configuration

To automatically apply rules based on proxy's service registration, use the following command:

```shell-session
$ consul connect redirect-traffic -proxy-uid 1234 -proxy-id web
```

This command assumes that the proxy service is registered with the local agent
and that the local agent is reachable.

Commit message:

cli/sdk: Allow redirection to a different consul dns port (#15050)

website/content/commands/connect/redirect-traffic.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Connect Redirect Traffic'
sidebar_title: redirect-traffic
description: >
  The connect redirect-traffic subcommand is used to apply traffic redirection rules
  when using Connect in Transparent Proxy mode.
---

# Consul Connect Redirect Traffic

Command: `consul connect redirect-traffic`

The connect redirect-traffic command is used to apply traffic redirection rules to enforce
all traffic to go through the [Envoy proxy](https://envoyproxy.io) when using [Consul
Service Mesh](/docs/connect/) in the Transparent Proxy mode.

This command requires `iptables` command line utility to be installed,
and as a result, this command can currently only run on linux.
The user running the command needs to have `NET_ADMIN` capability.

By default, this command will apply rules to intercept and redirect all inbound and outbound
TCP traffic to the Envoy's inbound and outbound ports accordingly.

When `proxy-id` is specified, additional exclusion rules will be applied based on proxy's
configuration stored in the local Consul agent. This includes redirecting to the proxy's
inbound and outbound ports specified in the service registration.

## Usage

Usage: `consul connect redirect-traffic [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-node-name` - The node name where the proxy service is registered. It requires proxy-id to be specified. This is needed if running in an environment without client agents.

- `-consul-dns-ip` - The IP address of the Consul DNS resolver. If provided, DNS queries will be redirected to the provided IP address for name resolution.

- `-consul-dns-port` - The port of the Consul DNS resolver. If provided, DNS queries will be redirected to the provided IP address for name resolution.

- `-proxy-id` - The [proxy service](/docs/connect/registration/service-registration) ID.
  This service ID must already be registered with the local agent.

- `-proxy-inbound-port` - The inbound port that the proxy is listening on.

- `-proxy-outbound-port` - The outbound port that the proxy is listening on. When not provided, 15001 is used by default.

- `-proxy-uid` - The user ID of the proxy to exclude from traffic redirection.

- `-exclude-inbound-port` - Inbound port to exclude from traffic redirection. May be provided multiple times.

- `-exclude-outbound-cidr` -  Outbound CIDR to exclude from traffic redirection. May be provided multiple times.

- `-exclude-outbound-port` - Outbound port to exclude from traffic redirection. May be provided multiple times.

- `-exclude-uid` - Additional user ID to exclude from traffic redirection. May be provided multiple times.

- `-netns` - The Linux network namespace where traffic redirection rules should apply.
  This must be a path to the network namespace, e.g. /var/run/netns/foo.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

## Examples

### Basic Rules

The default traffic redirection rules can be applied with:

```shell-session
$ consul connect redirect-traffic \
  -proxy-uid 1234 \
  -proxy-inbound-port 20000
```

### Using Registered Proxy Configuration

To automatically apply rules based on proxy's service registration, use the following command:

```shell-session
$ consul connect redirect-traffic -proxy-uid 1234 -proxy-id web
```

This command assumes that the proxy service is registered with the local agent
and that the local agent is reachable.
