website/content/docs/api-gateway/api-gateway-tech-specs.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul API Gateway Technical Specifications
description: >-
    This topic describes technical specifications for Consul API Gateway.
---

# Technical Specifications

## Required Software and Supported Versions

## Consul Server Deployments

- Consul Editions supported: OSS and Enterprise
- Supported Consul Server deployment types:
  - Self Managed
  - HCP Consul

## Deployment Environments

Consul API Gateway can be deployed in the following Kubernetes-based environments:

- Generic Kubernetes
- AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)
- Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
- Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)

## Kubernetes Gateway API Specification

Supported version of the Gateway API spec: v1alpha2


## Resource Allocations

### Gateway Controller Pod

| Resource | Allocation                                                                                               |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CPU      | None specified. Will use namespace or cluster default depending on the Kubernetes cluster configuration. |
| Memory   | None specified. Will use namespace or cluster default depending on the Kubernetes cluster configuration. |

### Gateway Instance Pod

| Resource | Allocation                                                                                               |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CPU      | None specified. Will use namespace or cluster default depending on the Kubernetes cluster configuration. |
| Memory   | None specified. Will use namespace or cluster default depending on the Kubernetes cluster configuration. |

## TCP Ports Required

The tables below lists the TCP ports that are used by each component of the API Gateway.

### Gateway Controller Pod

| Port | Used For                                                           |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 9090 | Secret Discovery Service (SDS)                                     |
| Configurable | Port for scraping Prometheus metrics. Disabled by default. |

### Gateway Instance Pod

| Port  | Used For                      |
| ----- | ----------------------------- |
| 9090 | Secret Discovery Service (SDS) |
| 20000 | Kubernetes readiness probe    |

Commit message:

Add descriptor for resource allocation tables
Also fix typo under TCP Ports Required

website/content/docs/api-gateway/api-gateway-tech-specs.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul API Gateway Technical Specifications
description: >-
    This topic describes technical specifications for Consul API Gateway.
---

# Technical Specifications

## Required Software and Supported Versions

## Consul Server Deployments

- Consul Editions supported: OSS and Enterprise
- Supported Consul Server deployment types:
  - Self Managed
  - HCP Consul

## Deployment Environments

Consul API Gateway can be deployed in the following Kubernetes-based environments:

- Generic Kubernetes
- AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS)
- Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
- Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)

## Kubernetes Gateway API Specification

Supported version of the Gateway API spec: v1alpha2


## Resource Allocations

The tables below list the resource allocations for each component of the API Gateway.

### Gateway Controller Pod

| Resource | Allocation                                                                                               |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CPU      | None specified. Will use namespace or cluster default depending on the Kubernetes cluster configuration. |
| Memory   | None specified. Will use namespace or cluster default depending on the Kubernetes cluster configuration. |

### Gateway Instance Pod

| Resource | Allocation                                                                                               |
| -------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CPU      | None specified. Will use namespace or cluster default depending on the Kubernetes cluster configuration. |
| Memory   | None specified. Will use namespace or cluster default depending on the Kubernetes cluster configuration. |

## TCP Ports Required

The tables below list the TCP ports that are used by each component of the API Gateway.

### Gateway Controller Pod

| Port | Used For                                                           |
| ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 9090 | Secret Discovery Service (SDS)                                     |
| Configurable | Port for scraping Prometheus metrics. Disabled by default. |

### Gateway Instance Pod

| Port  | Used For                      |
| ----- | ----------------------------- |
| 9090 | Secret Discovery Service (SDS) |
| 20000 | Kubernetes readiness probe    |
