website/content/docs/k8s/connect/ingress-controllers.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Ingress Controller Integrations
description: Configuring Ingress Controllers With Consul On Kubernetes
---

# Configuring Ingress Controllers with Consul on Kubernetes

-> This topic requires familiarity with [Ingress Controllers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/)

-> The following information requires Consul 1.10+, Consul-k8s 0.26+, Consul-helm 0.32+ configured with
[Transparent Proxy](/docs/connect/transparent-proxy) mode enabled.

This page describes a general approach for integrating Ingress Controllers with Consul on Kubernetes to secure traffic from the Controller
to the backend services by deploying sidecars along with your Ingress Controller. This allows Consul to transparently secure traffic from the ingress point through the entire traffic flow of the service.

If you are looking for a fully supported solution for ingress traffic into Consul Service Mesh, please visit [Consul API Gateway](/docs/api-gateway) for instruction on how to install Consul API Gateway along with Consul on Kubernetes.

A few steps are generally required to enable an Ingress controller to join the mesh and pass traffic through to a service:

* Enable connect-injection via an annotation on the Ingress Controller's deployment: `consul.hashicorp.com/connect-inject` is `true`.

* Using the following annotations on the Ingress controller's deployment, set up exclusion rules for its ports.
   * [`consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-inbound-ports`](/docs/k8s/annotations-and-labels#consul-hashicorp-com-transparent-proxy-exclude-inbound-ports) - Provides the ability to exclude a list of ports for
inbound traffic that the service exposes from redirection. Typical configurations would require all inbound service ports
for the controller to be included in this list.
   * [`consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-outbound-ports`](/docs/k8s/annotations-and-labels#consul-hashicorp-com-transparent-proxy-exclude-outbound-ports) - Provides the ability to exclude a list of ports for
outbound traffic that the service exposes from redirection. These would be outbound ports used by your ingress controller
  which expect to skip the mesh and talk to non-mesh services.
   * [`consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-outbound-cidrs`](/docs/k8s/annotations-and-labels#consul-hashicorp-com-transparent-proxy-exclude-outbound-cidrs) - Provides the ability to exclude a list of CIDRs that
the service communicates with for outbound requests from redirection. It is somewhat common that an Ingress controller
will expect to make API calls to the Kubernetes service for service/endpoint management. As such including the ClusterIP of the
Kubernetes service is common.

~> Note: Depending on which ingress controller you use, these stanzas may differ in name and layout, but it is important to apply
these annotations to the *pods* of your *ingress controller*.
   ```yaml
   # An example list of pod annotations for an ingress controller, which need be applied to PODS for the controller, not the deployment itself.
     podAnnotations:
       consul.hashicorp.com/connect-inject: "true"
       # Add the container ports used by your ingress controller
       consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-inbound-ports: "80,8000,9000,8443"
       # And the CIDR of your Kubernetes API: `kubectl get svc kubernetes --output jsonpath='{.spec.clusterIP}'
       consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-outbound-cidrs: "10.108.0.1/32"
   ```

* If the Ingress controller acts as a LoadBalancer and routes directly to Pod IPs instead of the ClusterIP of your Kubernetes Services
a `ServiceDefault` CRD must be applied to *each backend service* allowing it to use the `dialedDirectly` features. By default this is disabled.

   ```yaml
   # Example Service defaults config entry
   apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
   kind: ServiceDefaults
   metadata:
     name: backend
   spec:
     transparentProxy:
       dialedDirectly: true
   ```

* An intention from the Ingress Controller to the backend application must also be applied, this could be an L4 or L7 intention:

   ```yaml
   # example L4 intention, but an L7 intention can also be used to control access to specific routes.
   apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
   kind: ServiceIntentions
   metadata:
     name: ingress-backend
   spec:
     destination:
       name: backend
     sources:
       - name: ingress
         action: allow
   ```

### Common Configuration Problems:
- The Ingress Controller's ServiceAccount name and Service name differ by default in some platforms. Consul on Kubernetes requires the
ServiceAccount and Service to have the same name. To resolve this be sure to explicitly set ServiceAccount name the same as the ingress
controller service name using it's respective helm configurations.

- If the Ingress Controller does not have the correct inbound ports excluded it will fail to start and the Ingress'
service will not get created, causing the controller to hang in the init container. The required container ports are not
always readily available in the helm charts, so in order to resolve this examine the ingress controller's
underlying pod spec and look for the required container ports, adding these to the `consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-inbound-ports`
annotation on the ingress controller deployment.

### Examples:
Here are a couple example configurations which can be used as reference points in setting up your own ingress controller configuration!
These were used in dev environments and are not intended to be fully supported but should provide some idea how to extend the information
above to your own uses cases.

- [Traefik Consul example - kschoche](https://github.com/kschoche/traefik-consul)
- [Consul K8s Ingress Controllers examples - joatmon08](https://github.com/joatmon08/consul-k8s-ingress-controllers)

Commit message:

docs: add nginx ingress controller example (#14615)
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/docs/k8s/connect/ingress-controllers.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Ingress Controller Integrations
description: Configuring Ingress Controllers With Consul On Kubernetes
---

# Configuring Ingress Controllers with Consul on Kubernetes

-> This topic requires Consul 1.10+, Consul-k8s 0.26+, Consul-helm 0.32+ configured with [Transparent Proxy](/docs/connect/transparent-proxy) mode enabled. In addition, this topic assumes that the reader is familiar with [Ingress Controllers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/ingress-controllers/) on Kubernetes. 

~> If you are looking for a fully supported solution for ingress traffic into Consul Service Mesh, please visit [Consul API Gateway](/docs/api-gateway) for instruction on how to install Consul API Gateway along with Consul on Kubernetes.

This page describes a general approach for integrating Ingress Controllers with Consul on Kubernetes to secure traffic from the Controller
to the backend services by deploying sidecars along with your Ingress Controller. This allows Consul to transparently secure traffic from the ingress point through the entire traffic flow of the service.

A few steps are generally required to enable an Ingress controller to join the mesh and pass traffic through to a service:

* Enable connect-injection via an annotation on the Ingress Controller's deployment: `consul.hashicorp.com/connect-inject` is `true`.

* Using the following annotations on the Ingress controller's deployment, set up exclusion rules for its ports.
   * [`consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-inbound-ports`](/docs/k8s/annotations-and-labels#consul-hashicorp-com-transparent-proxy-exclude-inbound-ports) - Provides the ability to exclude a list of ports for
inbound traffic that the service exposes from redirection. Typical configurations would require all inbound service ports
for the controller to be included in this list.
   * [`consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-outbound-ports`](/docs/k8s/annotations-and-labels#consul-hashicorp-com-transparent-proxy-exclude-outbound-ports) - Provides the ability to exclude a list of ports for
outbound traffic that the service exposes from redirection. These would be outbound ports used by your ingress controller
  which expect to skip the mesh and talk to non-mesh services.
   * [`consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-outbound-cidrs`](/docs/k8s/annotations-and-labels#consul-hashicorp-com-transparent-proxy-exclude-outbound-cidrs) - Provides the ability to exclude a list of CIDRs that
the service communicates with for outbound requests from redirection. It is somewhat common that an Ingress controller
will expect to make API calls to the Kubernetes service for service/endpoint management. As such including the ClusterIP of the
Kubernetes service is common.

~> Note: Depending on which ingress controller you use, these stanzas may differ in name and layout, but it is important to apply
these annotations to the *pods* of your *ingress controller*.
   ```yaml
   # An example list of pod annotations for an ingress controller, which need be applied to PODS for the controller, not the deployment itself.
     podAnnotations:
       consul.hashicorp.com/connect-inject: "true"
       # Add the container ports used by your ingress controller
       consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-inbound-ports: "80,8000,9000,8443"
       # And the CIDR of your Kubernetes API: `kubectl get svc kubernetes --output jsonpath='{.spec.clusterIP}'
       consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-outbound-cidrs: "10.108.0.1/32"
   ```

* If the Ingress controller acts as a LoadBalancer and routes directly to Pod IPs instead of the ClusterIP of your Kubernetes Services
a `ServiceDefault` CRD must be applied to *each backend service* allowing it to use the `dialedDirectly` features. By default this is disabled.

   ```yaml
   # Example Service defaults config entry
   apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
   kind: ServiceDefaults
   metadata:
     name: backend
   spec:
     transparentProxy:
       dialedDirectly: true
   ```

* An intention from the Ingress Controller to the backend application must also be applied, this could be an L4 or L7 intention:

   ```yaml
   # example L4 intention, but an L7 intention can also be used to control access to specific routes.
   apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
   kind: ServiceIntentions
   metadata:
     name: ingress-backend
   spec:
     destination:
       name: backend
     sources:
       - name: ingress
         action: allow
   ```

### Common Configuration Problems:
- The Ingress Controller's ServiceAccount name and Service name differ by default in some platforms. Consul on Kubernetes requires the
ServiceAccount and Service to have the same name. To resolve this be sure to explicitly set ServiceAccount name the same as the ingress
controller service name using it's respective helm configurations.

- If the Ingress Controller does not have the correct inbound ports excluded it will fail to start and the Ingress'
service will not get created, causing the controller to hang in the init container. The required container ports are not
always readily available in the helm charts, so in order to resolve this examine the ingress controller's
underlying pod spec and look for the required container ports, adding these to the `consul.hashicorp.com/transparent-proxy-exclude-inbound-ports`
annotation on the ingress controller deployment.

### Examples:
Here are a couple example configurations which can be used as reference points in setting up your own ingress controller configuration!
These were used in dev environments and are not intended to be fully supported but should provide some idea how to extend the information
above to your own uses cases.

- [Traefik Consul example - kschoche](https://github.com/kschoche/traefik-consul)
- [Kong and Traefik Ingress Controller examples - joatmon08](https://github.com/joatmon08/consul-k8s-ingress-controllers)
- [NGINX Ingress Controller example - dhiaayahci](https://github.com/dhiaayachi/eks-consul-ingressnginx)
