website/content/docs/upgrading/instructions/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrade Instructions
description: >-
  Specific versions of Consul may have additional information about the upgrade
  process beyond the standard flow.
---

# Upgrade Instructions

This document is intended to help users who find themselves many versions behind to upgrade safely.

## Upgrade Path

Our recommended upgrade path is to move through the following sequence of versions:
- 0.8.5 (final 0.8.x)
- 1.2.4 (final 1.2.x)
- 1.6.10 (final 1.6.x)
- 1.8.19 (final 1.8.x)
- Latest 1.10.x
- Latest current version (1.11.x or 1.12.x)

## Getting Started

To get instructions for your upgrade, follow the instructions given below for
your _currently installed_ release series until you are on the latest current version.
The upgrade guides will mention notable changes and link to relevant changelogs –
we recommend reviewing the changelog for versions between the one you are on and the
one you are upgrading to at each step to familiarize yourself with changes.

Select your _currently installed_ release series:
- [1.9.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-10-x)
- [1.8.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-10-x)
- [1.7.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-8-x)
- [1.6.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-8-x)
- [1.5.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-6-x)
- [1.4.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-6-x)
- [1.3.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-6-x)
- [1.2.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-6-x)
- [1.1.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-2-x)
- [1.0.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-2-x)
- [0.9.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-2-x)
- [0.8.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-2-x)

If you are using <= 0.7.x, please contact support for assistance:
- OSS users without paid support plans can request help in our [Community Forum](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/c/consul/29)
- Enterprise and OSS users with paid support plans can contact [HashiCorp Support](https://support.hashicorp.com/)

Commit message:

Add upgrade instructions and considerations for Consul 1.13.1

website/content/docs/upgrading/instructions/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Upgrade Instructions
description: >-
  Specific versions of Consul may have additional information about the upgrade
  process beyond the standard flow.
---

# Upgrade Instructions

This document is intended to help users who find themselves many versions behind to upgrade safely.

## Upgrade Path

Our recommended upgrade path is to move through the following sequence of versions:
- 0.8.5 (final 0.8.x)
- 1.2.4 (final 1.2.x)
- 1.6.10 (final 1.6.x)
- 1.8.19 (final 1.8.x)
- Latest 1.10.x
- Latest current version (1.11.x or 1.12.x)

## Getting Started

To get instructions for your upgrade, follow the instructions given below for
your _currently installed_ release series until you are on the latest current version.
The upgrade guides will mention notable changes and link to relevant changelogs –
we recommend reviewing the changelog for versions between the one you are on and the
one you are upgrading to at each step to familiarize yourself with changes.

~> **Note:** If you are upgrading from `1.11`+ and have connect proxies 
registered, upgrade directly to `1.13.1` instead of `1.13.0`.

Select your _currently installed_ release series:
- [1.9.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-10-x)
- [1.8.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-10-x)
- [1.7.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-8-x)
- [1.6.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-8-x)
- [1.5.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-6-x)
- [1.4.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-6-x)
- [1.3.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-6-x)
- [1.2.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-6-x)
- [1.1.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-2-x)
- [1.0.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-2-x)
- [0.9.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-2-x)
- [0.8.x](/docs/upgrading/instructions/upgrade-to-1-2-x)

If you are using <= 0.7.x, please contact support for assistance:
- OSS users without paid support plans can request help in our [Community Forum](https://discuss.hashicorp.com/c/consul/29)
- Enterprise and OSS users with paid support plans can contact [HashiCorp Support](https://support.hashicorp.com/)
