website/content/docs/enterprise/sentinel.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Sentinel in Consul (Enterprise)
description: >-
Sentinel is a framework and language for creating logic-based policies. Learn how Consul can use Sentinel policies to extend the ACL system's capabilities.
---

# Sentinel in Consul

<EnterpriseAlert>
  This feature requires
  HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) or self-managed Consul Enterprise.
  Refer to the{' '}
  <a href="/docs/enterprise#consul-enterprise-feature-availability">enterprise feature matrix</a>
  {' '}for additional information.
</EnterpriseAlert>

Sentinel policies extend the ACL system in Consul beyond static "read", "write",
and "deny" policies to support full conditional logic and integration with
external systems. Reference the [Sentinel documentation](https://docs.hashicorp.com/sentinel/concepts/) for high-level Sentinel concepts.

To get started with Sentinel in Consul,
[read the general documentation](https://docs.hashicorp.com/sentinel/consul/) or
[Consul documentation](/docs/agent/sentinel).

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
Co-authored-by: Jared Kirschner <85913323+jkirschner-hashicorp@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Luke Kysow <1034429+lkysow@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/docs/enterprise/sentinel.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Sentinel in Consul (Enterprise)
description: >-
Sentinel is an access-control-policy-as-code framework and language. Learn how Consul can use Sentinel policies to extend the ACL system's capabilities and further secure your clusters by controlling key-value (KV) store write access.
---

# Sentinel in Consul

<EnterpriseAlert>
  This feature requires
  HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) or self-managed Consul Enterprise.
  Refer to the{' '}
  <a href="/docs/enterprise#consul-enterprise-feature-availability">enterprise feature matrix</a>
  {' '}for additional information.
</EnterpriseAlert>

Sentinel policies extend the ACL system in Consul beyond static "read", "write",
and "deny" policies to support full conditional logic and integration with
external systems. Reference the [Sentinel documentation](https://docs.hashicorp.com/sentinel/concepts/) for high-level Sentinel concepts.

To get started with Sentinel in Consul,
[read the general documentation](https://docs.hashicorp.com/sentinel/consul/) or
[Consul documentation](/docs/agent/sentinel).
