website/content/docs/enterprise/upgrades.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Automated Upgrades (Enterprise)
description: >-
Automated upgrades simplify the process for updating Consul. Learn how Consul can deploy a new version on additional servers and then automatically remove outdated versions without server downtime.
---

# Automated Upgrades

<EnterpriseAlert>
  This feature requires
  HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) or self-managed Consul Enterprise.
  Refer to the{' '}
  <a href="/docs/enterprise#consul-enterprise-feature-availability">enterprise feature matrix</a>
  {' '}for additional information.
</EnterpriseAlert>

Consul Enterprise enables the capability of automatically upgrading a cluster of Consul servers to a new
version as updated server nodes join the cluster. This automated upgrade will spawn a process which monitors the amount of voting members
currently in a cluster. When an equal amount of new server nodes are joined running the desired version, the lower versioned servers
will be demoted to non voting members. Demotion of legacy server nodes will not occur until the voting members on the new version match.
Once this demotion occurs, the previous versioned servers can be removed from the cluster safely.

Review the [Consul operator autopilot](/commands/operator/autopilot) documentation and complete the [Automated Upgrade](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/autopilot-datacenter-operations#upgrade-migrations) tutorial to learn more about automated upgrades.

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review
Co-authored-by: Jared Kirschner <85913323+jkirschner-hashicorp@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Luke Kysow <1034429+lkysow@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/docs/enterprise/upgrades.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Automated Upgrades (Enterprise)
description: >-
Automated upgrades simplify the process for updating Consul. Learn how Consul can gracefully transition from existing server agents to a new set of server agents without Consul downtime.
---

# Automated Upgrades

<EnterpriseAlert>
  This feature requires
  HashiCorp Cloud Platform (HCP) or self-managed Consul Enterprise.
  Refer to the{' '}
  <a href="/docs/enterprise#consul-enterprise-feature-availability">enterprise feature matrix</a>
  {' '}for additional information.
</EnterpriseAlert>

Consul Enterprise enables the capability of automatically upgrading a cluster of Consul servers to a new
version as updated server nodes join the cluster. This automated upgrade will spawn a process which monitors the amount of voting members
currently in a cluster. When an equal amount of new server nodes are joined running the desired version, the lower versioned servers
will be demoted to non voting members. Demotion of legacy server nodes will not occur until the voting members on the new version match.
Once this demotion occurs, the previous versioned servers can be removed from the cluster safely.

Review the [Consul operator autopilot](/commands/operator/autopilot) documentation and complete the [Automated Upgrade](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/autopilot-datacenter-operations#upgrade-migrations) tutorial to learn more about automated upgrades.
