website/content/commands/acl/auth-method/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Auth Methods'
---

# Consul ACL Auth Methods

Command: `consul acl auth-method`

The `acl auth-method` command is used to manage Consul's ACL auth methods.
It exposes commands for creating, updating, reading, deleting, and listing auth methods.
This command is available in Consul 1.5.0 and newer.

ACL auth methods may also be managed via the [HTTP API](/consul/api-docs/acl/auth-methods).

-> **Note:** All of the example subcommands in this document will require a valid
Consul token with the appropriate permissions. Either set the
`CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable to the token's secret ID or pass the
secret ID as the value of the `-token` parameter.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl auth-method <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul acl auth-method -h` to view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul acl auth-method <subcommand> [options] [args]

  ...

Subcommands:
    create    Create an ACL auth method
    delete    Delete an ACL auth method
    list      Lists ACL auth methods
    read      Read an ACL auth method
    update    Update an ACL auth method
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Basic Examples

Create a new auth method:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method create -type "kubernetes" \
                        -name "my-k8s" \
                        -description "This is an example kube auth method" \
                        -kubernetes-host "https://apiserver.example.com:8443" \
                        -kubernetes-ca-cert @/path/to/kube.ca.crt \
                        -kubernetes-service-account-jwt "JWT_CONTENTS"
```

List all auth methods:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method list
```

Update all editable fields of the auth method:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method update -name "my-k8s" \
                        -description "new description" \
                        -kubernetes-host "https://new-apiserver.example.com:8443" \
                        -kubernetes-ca-cert @/path/to/new-kube.ca.crt \
                        -kubernetes-service-account-jwt "NEW_JWT_CONTENTS"
```

Read an auth method:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method read -name my-k8s
```

Delete an auth method:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method delete -name my-k8s
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/acl/auth-method/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Auth Methods'
description: |
  The `consul acl auth-method` command interacts with Consul's ACL auth methods. It exposes top-level commands for  creating, updating, reading, deleting, and listing auth methods.
---

# Consul ACL Auth Methods

Command: `consul acl auth-method`

The `acl auth-method` command is used to manage Consul's ACL auth methods.
It exposes commands for creating, updating, reading, deleting, and listing auth methods.
This command is available in Consul 1.5.0 and newer.

ACL auth methods may also be managed via the [HTTP API](/consul/api-docs/acl/auth-methods).

-> **Note:** All of the example subcommands in this document will require a valid
Consul token with the appropriate permissions. Either set the
`CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable to the token's secret ID or pass the
secret ID as the value of the `-token` parameter.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl auth-method <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul acl auth-method -h` to view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul acl auth-method <subcommand> [options] [args]

  ...

Subcommands:
    create    Create an ACL auth method
    delete    Delete an ACL auth method
    list      Lists ACL auth methods
    read      Read an ACL auth method
    update    Update an ACL auth method
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Basic Examples

Create a new auth method:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method create -type "kubernetes" \
                        -name "my-k8s" \
                        -description "This is an example kube auth method" \
                        -kubernetes-host "https://apiserver.example.com:8443" \
                        -kubernetes-ca-cert @/path/to/kube.ca.crt \
                        -kubernetes-service-account-jwt "JWT_CONTENTS"
```

List all auth methods:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method list
```

Update all editable fields of the auth method:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method update -name "my-k8s" \
                        -description "new description" \
                        -kubernetes-host "https://new-apiserver.example.com:8443" \
                        -kubernetes-ca-cert @/path/to/new-kube.ca.crt \
                        -kubernetes-service-account-jwt "NEW_JWT_CONTENTS"
```

Read an auth method:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method read -name my-k8s
```

Delete an auth method:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method delete -name my-k8s
```
