website/content/commands/acl/auth-method/list.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Auth Method List'
---

# Consul ACL Auth Method List

Command: `consul acl auth-method list`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/auth-methods](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/auth-methods#list-auth-methods)

The `acl auth-method list` command lists all auth methods. By default it will not show metadata.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl auth-method list`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-meta` - Indicates that auth method metadata such as the raft indices should
  be shown for each entry.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Default listing.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method list
minikube:
   Type:         kubernetes
   Description:  minikube auth method
minikube-two:
   Type:         kubernetes
   Description:  dev cluster
```

Show Metadata.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method list -meta
minikube:
   Type:         kubernetes
   Description:  minikube auth method
   Create Index: 443
   Modify Index: 443
minikube-two:
   Type:         kubernetes
   Description:  dev cluster
   Create Index: 445
   Modify Index: 445
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/acl/auth-method/list.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Auth Method List'
---

# Consul ACL Auth Method List

Command: `consul acl auth-method list`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/auth-methods](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/auth-methods#list-auth-methods)

The `acl auth-method list` command lists all auth methods. By default it will not show metadata.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:read`   |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl auth-method list`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-meta` - Indicates that auth method metadata such as the raft indices should
  be shown for each entry.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Default listing.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method list
minikube:
   Type:         kubernetes
   Description:  minikube auth method
minikube-two:
   Type:         kubernetes
   Description:  dev cluster
```

Show Metadata.

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method list -meta
minikube:
   Type:         kubernetes
   Description:  minikube auth method
   Create Index: 443
   Modify Index: 443
minikube-two:
   Type:         kubernetes
   Description:  dev cluster
   Create Index: 445
   Modify Index: 445
```
