website/content/commands/acl/auth-method/update.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Auth Method Update'
---

# Consul ACL Auth Method Update

Command: `consul acl auth-method update`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/auth-method/:name](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/auth-methods#update-an-auth-method)

The `acl auth-method update` command is used to update an auth method. The
default operations is to merge the current auth method with those values
provided to the command invocation. Therefore to update just one field, only
the `-name` options and the option to modify must be provided.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl auth-method update [options] [args]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the auth method.

- `-display-name=<string>` - An optional name to use instead of the name when
  displaying this auth method in a UI. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

- `-max-token-ttl=<duration>` - Duration of time all tokens created by this
  auth method should be valid for. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

- `-token-locality=<string>` - Defines the kind of token that this auth method
  should produce. This can be either 'local' or 'global'. If empty the value of
  'local' is assumed. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

- `-config=<string>` - The configuration for the auth method. Must be JSON. May
  be prefixed with '@' to indicate that the value is a file path to load the
  config from. '-' may also be given to indicate that the config is available on
  stdin. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

- `-kubernetes-ca-cert=<string>` - PEM encoded CA cert for use by the TLS
  client used to talk with the Kubernetes API. May be prefixed with '@' to
  indicate that the value is a file path to load the cert from. This flag is
  required for `-type=kubernetes`.

- `-kubernetes-host=<string>` - Address of the Kubernetes API server. This flag
  is required for `-type=kubernetes`.

- `-kubernetes-service-account-jwt=<string>` - A Kubernetes service account JWT
  used to access the TokenReview API to validate other JWTs during login. This
  flag is required for `-type=kubernetes`.

- `-meta` - Indicates that auth method metadata such as the raft
  indices should be shown for each entry

- `-name=<string>` - The name of the auth method to update.

- `-no-merge` - Do not merge the current auth method information with what is provided
  to the command. Instead overwrite all fields with the exception of the auth method
  ID which is immutable.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

- `-namespace-rule-bind-namespace=<value>` - Namespace to bind on match. Can
  use `${var}` interpolation. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

- `-namespace-rule-selector=<value>` - An expression that matches against
  verified identity attributes returned from the auth method during login to
  determine if the namespace rule applies. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Update an auth method:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method update -name minikube \
    -description 'dev cluster' \
    -kubernetes-host 'https://192.0.2.44:8443'
Name:         minikube
Type:         kubernetes
Description:  dev cluster
Config:
{
  "CACert": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n",
  "Host": "https://192.0.2.44:8443",
  "ServiceAccountJWT": "eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI..."
}
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/acl/auth-method/update.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Auth Method Update'
---

# Consul ACL Auth Method Update

Command: `consul acl auth-method update`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/auth-method/:name](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/auth-methods#update-an-auth-method)

The `acl auth-method update` command is used to update an auth method. The
default operations is to merge the current auth method with those values
provided to the command invocation. Therefore to update just one field, only
the `-name` options and the option to modify must be provided.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl auth-method update [options] [args]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the auth method.

- `-display-name=<string>` - An optional name to use instead of the name when
  displaying this auth method in a UI. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

- `-max-token-ttl=<duration>` - Duration of time all tokens created by this
  auth method should be valid for. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

- `-token-locality=<string>` - Defines the kind of token that this auth method
  should produce. This can be either 'local' or 'global'. If empty the value of
  'local' is assumed. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

- `-config=<string>` - The configuration for the auth method. Must be JSON. May
  be prefixed with '@' to indicate that the value is a file path to load the
  config from. '-' may also be given to indicate that the config is available on
  stdin. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

- `-kubernetes-ca-cert=<string>` - PEM encoded CA cert for use by the TLS
  client used to talk with the Kubernetes API. May be prefixed with '@' to
  indicate that the value is a file path to load the cert from. This flag is
  required for `-type=kubernetes`.

- `-kubernetes-host=<string>` - Address of the Kubernetes API server. This flag
  is required for `-type=kubernetes`.

- `-kubernetes-service-account-jwt=<string>` - A Kubernetes service account JWT
  used to access the TokenReview API to validate other JWTs during login. This
  flag is required for `-type=kubernetes`.

- `-meta` - Indicates that auth method metadata such as the raft
  indices should be shown for each entry

- `-name=<string>` - The name of the auth method to update.

- `-no-merge` - Do not merge the current auth method information with what is provided
  to the command. Instead overwrite all fields with the exception of the auth method
  ID which is immutable.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

- `-namespace-rule-bind-namespace=<value>` - Namespace to bind on match. Can
  use `${var}` interpolation. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

- `-namespace-rule-selector=<value>` - An expression that matches against
  verified identity attributes returned from the auth method during login to
  determine if the namespace rule applies. Added in Consul 1.8.0.

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Update an auth method:

```shell-session
$ consul acl auth-method update -name minikube \
    -description 'dev cluster' \
    -kubernetes-host 'https://192.0.2.44:8443'
Name:         minikube
Type:         kubernetes
Description:  dev cluster
Config:
{
  "CACert": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----\n...-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n",
  "Host": "https://192.0.2.44:8443",
  "ServiceAccountJWT": "eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI..."
}
```
