website/content/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclassconfig.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul API Gateway GatewayClassConfig
description:  >-
  Consul API Gateway GatewayClassConfig
---

# GatewayClassConfig

This topic provides full details about the `GatewayClassConfig` resource.

## Introduction

The `GatewayClassConfig` object contains Consul API Gateway-related configuration parameters. Apply the parameters by adding the [`GatewayClass`](#gatewayclass) object to your Kubernetes values file and specifying the name of the `GatewayClassConfig`.

## Configuration model

The following outline shows how to format the configurations in the `GatewayClassConfig` object. Click on a property name to view details about the configuration.

* [`consul`](#consul): object | optional
  * [`address`](#consul-address): string | optional
  * [`authentication`](#consul-authentication): object | optional
    * [`account`]([#consul-authentication-account): string | optional
    * [`managed`](#consul-authentication-managed): bool  | optional
    * [`method`](#consul-authentication-method): string | optional
    * [`namespace`](#consul-authentication-namespace): string  | optional
  * [`ports`](#consul-ports): object  | optional
    * [`grpc`](#consul-ports-grpc): integer | optional
    * [`http`](#consul-ports-http): integer | optional
  * [`scheme`](#consul-scheme): string  | optional
* [`copyAnnotations`](#copyAnnotations): object | optional
  * [`service`](#copyAnnotations-service): array of strings | optional
* [`deployment`](#deployment): object | optional
  * [`defaultInstances`](#deployment-defaultinstances): integer | optional
  * [`maxInstances`](#deployment-maxinstances): integer | optional
  * [`minInstances`](#deployment-mininstances): integer | optional
* [`image`](#image): object | optional
  * [`consulAPIGateway`](#image-consulapigateway): string | optional
  * [`envoy`](#image-envoy): string | optional
* [`logLevel`](#loglevel): string | optional
* [`nodeSelector`](#nodeselector): string | optional
* [`serviceType`](#servicetype): string | optional
* [`useHostPorts`](#usehostports): boolean | optional

## Specification

This topic provides details about the configuration parameters.

### consul
Specifies configurations that enable an instance of Consul API Gateway to interact with Consul.
* Type: object
* Required: optional

### consul.address
Specifies the address of the Consul server that the `Gateway` communicates with in the gateway pod. If unspecified, the pod attempts to use a local agent on the host where the pod is running.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: local agent

### consul.authentication.account
Specifies the [Kubernetes service account](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/) to use for authentication.
* Type: string
* Required: optional

### consul.authentication.managed
Set to `true` to enable deployments to run with managed service accounts created by the gateway controller. The `consul.authentication.account` field is ignored when this option is enabled.
* Type: boolean
* Required: optional
* Default: `false`

### consul.authentication.method
Specifies the [Consul auth method](/docs/security/acl/auth-methods) used for initial authentication by Consul API Gateway.
* Type: string
* Required: optional

### consul.authentication.namespace
Specifies the Consul namespace to use for authentication.
* Type: string
* Required: optional

### consul.ports.grpc
Specifies the gRPC port for Consul's xDS server.
* Type: integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `8502`

### consul.ports.http
Specifies the Consul HTTP port to use for authentication.
* Type: integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `8500`

### consul.scheme
Specifies the scheme to use for connecting to Consul.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `http`

You can specify the following strings:
* `http`
* `https`

### copyAnnotations.service
Specifies an array of Kubernetes [annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/) to copy to the gateway service.
* Type: Array of strings
* Required: optional

### deployment.defaultInstances
Specifies the number of gateway instances to deploy per gateway configuration.
* Type: Integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `1`

### deployment.maxInstances
Specifies the maximum allowed number of gateway instances per gateway configuration.
* Type: Integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `8`

### deployment.minInstances
Specifies the minimum allowed number of gateway instances per gateway configuration.
* Type: Integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `1`

### image.consulAPIGateway
Specifies the Docker image to use for the `consul-api-gateway` container. View available image tags on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/tags).

The default value is suitable for most deployments, but you may require a specific version of the Consul API Gateway depending on your environment.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `"hashicorp/consul-api-gateway:RELEASE_VERSION"`

### image.envoy
Specifies the Docker image to use for the Envoy proxy container. View available image tags on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/tags).

The default value is suitable for most deployments, but you may require a specific version of Envoy depending on your environment.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `"envoyproxy/envoy:RELEASE_VERSION"`

### logLevel
Specifies the error reporting level for logs.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `info`

You can specify the following strings:
* `error`
* `warning`
* `info`
* `debug`
* `trace`

### nodeSelector
Pods normally run on multiple nodes. You can specify a set of parameters in the `nodeSelector` that constrain the nodes on which the pod can run, enabling the pod to fit on a node. The selector must match a node's labels for the pod to be scheduled on that node. Refer to the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/) for additional information.

* Type: string
* Required: optional

### serviceType
Specifies the ingress methods for the gateway's Kubernetes service.
* Type: string
* Required: optional

You can specify the following strings:
* `ClusterIP`: The gateway is only accessible from inside the cluster.
* `NodePort`: The gateway is exposed on each Kubernetes node at a static port.
* `LoadBalancer`: The gateway is exposed to external traffic by a load balancer.

For more on Kubernetes services, see [Publishing Services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types).

### useHostPorts
If set to `true`, then the Envoy container ports are mapped to host ports.
* Type: boolean
* Required: optional
* Default: `false`


## Example Configuration
The following example creates a gateway class configuration called `test-gateway-class-config`. Traffic that passes through gateways created from the class configuration authenticate with Consul over HTTPS on port `8501`. Consul client agents communicate with server agents on port `8502` :

<CodeBlockConfig filename="gateway.yaml">

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: api-gateway.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
  kind: GatewayClassConfig
  metadata:
    name: test-gateway-class-config
  spec:
    useHostPorts: true
    logLevel: 'trace'
    consul:
      scheme: 'https'
      ports:
        http: 8501
        grpc: 8502
```
</CodeBlockConfig>

Refer to the [Consul API Gateway repository](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/blob/main/config/crd/bases/api-gateway.consul.hashicorp.com_gatewayclassconfigs.yaml) for the complete specification.

Commit message:

/docs/api-gateway/configuration /docs/api-gateway/

website/content/docs/api-gateway/configuration/gatewayclassconfig.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: GatewayClassConfig Resource Configuration
description: >-
  The `GatewayClassConfig` resource specifies connection information and settings that Consul API Gateway uses to connect to Consul. Learn about its configuration model and reference specifications, and review an example config.
---

# GatewayClassConfig Resource Configuration

This topic provides full details about the `GatewayClassConfig` resource.

## Introduction

The `GatewayClassConfig` object contains Consul API Gateway-related configuration parameters. Apply the parameters by adding the [`GatewayClass`](#gatewayclass) object to your Kubernetes values file and specifying the name of the `GatewayClassConfig`.

## Configuration model

The following outline shows how to format the configurations in the `GatewayClassConfig` object. Click on a property name to view details about the configuration.

* [`consul`](#consul): object | optional
  * [`address`](#consul-address): string | optional
  * [`authentication`](#consul-authentication): object | optional
    * [`account`]([#consul-authentication-account): string | optional
    * [`managed`](#consul-authentication-managed): bool  | optional
    * [`method`](#consul-authentication-method): string | optional
    * [`namespace`](#consul-authentication-namespace): string  | optional
  * [`ports`](#consul-ports): object  | optional
    * [`grpc`](#consul-ports-grpc): integer | optional
    * [`http`](#consul-ports-http): integer | optional
  * [`scheme`](#consul-scheme): string  | optional
* [`copyAnnotations`](#copyAnnotations): object | optional
  * [`service`](#copyAnnotations-service): array of strings | optional
* [`deployment`](#deployment): object | optional
  * [`defaultInstances`](#deployment-defaultinstances): integer | optional
  * [`maxInstances`](#deployment-maxinstances): integer | optional
  * [`minInstances`](#deployment-mininstances): integer | optional
* [`image`](#image): object | optional
  * [`consulAPIGateway`](#image-consulapigateway): string | optional
  * [`envoy`](#image-envoy): string | optional
* [`logLevel`](#loglevel): string | optional
* [`nodeSelector`](#nodeselector): string | optional
* [`serviceType`](#servicetype): string | optional
* [`useHostPorts`](#usehostports): boolean | optional

## Specification

This topic provides details about the configuration parameters.

### consul
Specifies configurations that enable an instance of Consul API Gateway to interact with Consul.
* Type: object
* Required: optional

### consul.address
Specifies the address of the Consul server that the `Gateway` communicates with in the gateway pod. If unspecified, the pod attempts to use a local agent on the host where the pod is running.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: local agent

### consul.authentication.account
Specifies the [Kubernetes service account](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/configure-service-account/) to use for authentication.
* Type: string
* Required: optional

### consul.authentication.managed
Set to `true` to enable deployments to run with managed service accounts created by the gateway controller. The `consul.authentication.account` field is ignored when this option is enabled.
* Type: boolean
* Required: optional
* Default: `false`

### consul.authentication.method
Specifies the [Consul auth method](/docs/security/acl/auth-methods) used for initial authentication by Consul API Gateway.
* Type: string
* Required: optional

### consul.authentication.namespace
Specifies the Consul namespace to use for authentication.
* Type: string
* Required: optional

### consul.ports.grpc
Specifies the gRPC port for Consul's xDS server.
* Type: integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `8502`

### consul.ports.http
Specifies the Consul HTTP port to use for authentication.
* Type: integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `8500`

### consul.scheme
Specifies the scheme to use for connecting to Consul.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `http`

You can specify the following strings:
* `http`
* `https`

### copyAnnotations.service
Specifies an array of Kubernetes [annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/) to copy to the gateway service.
* Type: Array of strings
* Required: optional

### deployment.defaultInstances
Specifies the number of gateway instances to deploy per gateway configuration.
* Type: Integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `1`

### deployment.maxInstances
Specifies the maximum allowed number of gateway instances per gateway configuration.
* Type: Integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `8`

### deployment.minInstances
Specifies the minimum allowed number of gateway instances per gateway configuration.
* Type: Integer
* Required: optional
* Default: `1`

### image.consulAPIGateway
Specifies the Docker image to use for the `consul-api-gateway` container. View available image tags on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/tags).

The default value is suitable for most deployments, but you may require a specific version of the Consul API Gateway depending on your environment.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `"hashicorp/consul-api-gateway:RELEASE_VERSION"`

### image.envoy
Specifies the Docker image to use for the Envoy proxy container. View available image tags on [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/tags).

The default value is suitable for most deployments, but you may require a specific version of Envoy depending on your environment.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `"envoyproxy/envoy:RELEASE_VERSION"`

### logLevel
Specifies the error reporting level for logs.
* Type: string
* Required: optional
* Default: `info`

You can specify the following strings:
* `error`
* `warning`
* `info`
* `debug`
* `trace`

### nodeSelector
Pods normally run on multiple nodes. You can specify a set of parameters in the `nodeSelector` that constrain the nodes on which the pod can run, enabling the pod to fit on a node. The selector must match a node's labels for the pod to be scheduled on that node. Refer to the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/) for additional information.

* Type: string
* Required: optional

### serviceType
Specifies the ingress methods for the gateway's Kubernetes service.
* Type: string
* Required: optional

You can specify the following strings:
* `ClusterIP`: The gateway is only accessible from inside the cluster.
* `NodePort`: The gateway is exposed on each Kubernetes node at a static port.
* `LoadBalancer`: The gateway is exposed to external traffic by a load balancer.

For more on Kubernetes services, see [Publishing Services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types).

### useHostPorts
If set to `true`, then the Envoy container ports are mapped to host ports.
* Type: boolean
* Required: optional
* Default: `false`


## Example Configuration
The following example creates a gateway class configuration called `test-gateway-class-config`. Traffic that passes through gateways created from the class configuration authenticate with Consul over HTTPS on port `8501`. Consul client agents communicate with server agents on port `8502` :

<CodeBlockConfig filename="gateway.yaml">

  ```yaml
  apiVersion: api-gateway.consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
  kind: GatewayClassConfig
  metadata:
    name: test-gateway-class-config
  spec:
    useHostPorts: true
    logLevel: 'trace'
    consul:
      scheme: 'https'
      ports:
        http: 8501
        grpc: 8502
```
</CodeBlockConfig>

Refer to the [Consul API Gateway repository](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/blob/main/config/crd/bases/api-gateway.consul.hashicorp.com_gatewayclassconfigs.yaml) for the complete specification.
