website/content/docs/api-gateway/configuration/meshservice.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul API Gateway MeshService
description:  >-
  This topic describes how to configure the Consul API Gateway MeshService object
---

# MeshService

This topic provides full details about the `MeshService` resource.

## Introduction

A `MeshService` is a resource in the Kubernetes cluster that enables Kubernetes configuration models, such as `HTTPRoute` and `TCPRoute`, to reference services that only exist in Consul. A `MeshService` represents a service in the Consul service mesh outside the Kubernetes cluster where Consul API Gateway is deployed. The service represented by the `MeshService` resource must be in the same Consul datacenter as the Kubernetes cluster.  


## Configuration Model

The following outline shows how to format the configurations in the `MeshService` object. Click on a property name to view details about the configuration.

* [`name`](#name): string | required


## Specification

This topic provides details about the configuration parameters.

### name
Specifies the name of the service in the Consul service mesh to send traffic to.
* Type: string
* Required: required

Commit message:

/docs/api-gateway/configuration /docs/api-gateway/

website/content/docs/api-gateway/configuration/meshservice.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: MeshService Resource Configuration
description: >-
  The `MeshService` resource specifies a service running outside the Kubernetes cluster but in the same datacenter where the Consul API Gateway is deployed. Learn about its configuration model and reference specifications.
---

# MeshService Resource Configuration

This topic provides full details about the `MeshService` resource.

## Introduction

A `MeshService` is a resource in the Kubernetes cluster that enables Kubernetes configuration models, such as `HTTPRoute` and `TCPRoute`, to reference services that only exist in Consul. A `MeshService` represents a service in the Consul service mesh outside the Kubernetes cluster where Consul API Gateway is deployed. The service represented by the `MeshService` resource must be in the same Consul datacenter as the Kubernetes cluster.  


## Configuration Model

The following outline shows how to format the configurations in the `MeshService` object. Click on a property name to view details about the configuration.

* [`name`](#name): string | required


## Specification

This topic provides details about the configuration parameters.

### name
Specifies the name of the service in the Consul service mesh to send traffic to.
* Type: string
* Required: required
