website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration/bootstrap-token.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Storing the ACL Bootstrap Token in Vault
description: >-
  Configuring the Consul Helm chart to use an ACL bootstrap token stored in Vault.
---

# Storing the ACL Bootstrap Token in Vault

This topic describes how to configure the Consul Helm chart to use an ACL bootstrap token stored in Vault.
## Overview
To use an ACL bootstrap token stored in Vault, we will follow the steps outlined in the [Data Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section:

### One time setup in Vault

  1. Store the secret in Vault.
  1. Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret.

### Setup per Consul datacenter
  1. Create Vault Kubernetes auth roles that link the policy to each Consul on Kubernetes service account that requires access.
  1. Update the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart.

## Prerequisites
Prior to setting up the data integration between Vault and Consul on Kubernetes, you will need to have:
1. Read and completed the steps in the [Systems Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/systems-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).
2. Read the [Data Integration Overview](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).
## One time setup in Vault
### Generate and Store the Secret in Vault

First, generate and store the ACL bootstrap token in Vault:

```shell-session
$ vault kv put secret/consul/bootstrap-token token="$(uuidgen | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')"
```

### Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret

-> **Note:** The secret path referenced by the Vault Policy below will be your `global.acls.bootstrapToken.secretName` Helm value.

Next, you will need to create a Vault policy that allows read access to this secret:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="bootstrap-token-policy.hcl">

```HCL
path "secret/data/consul/bootstrap-token" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Apply the Vault policy by issuing the `vault policy write` CLI command:

```shell-session
$ vault policy write bootstrap-token-policy bootstrap-token-policy.hcl
```

## Setup per Consul datacenter
### Create Vault Kubernetes auth roles that link the policy to each Consul on Kubernetes service account that requires access

Next, you will create Kubernetes auth roles for the Consul `server-acl-init` container that runs as part of the Consul server statefulset:

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server-acl-init \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul server service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=bootstrap-token-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

To find out the service account name of the Consul server-acl-init job (i.e. the Consul server service account name),
you can run the following `helm template` command with your Consul on Kubernetes values file:

```shell-session
$ helm template --release-name ${RELEASE_NAME} -s templates/server-acl-init-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

### Update the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart

Now that you have configured Vault, you can configure the Consul Helm chart to
use the  ACL bootstrap token in Vault:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

```yaml
global:
  secretsBackend:
    vault:
      enabled: true
      manageSystemACLsRole: consul-server-acl-init
  acls:
    bootstrapToken:
      secretName: secret/data/consul/bootstrap-token
      secretKey: token
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note that `global.acls.bootstrapToken.secretName` is the path of the secret in Vault.
This should be the same path as the one you included in your Vault policy.
`global.acls.bootstrapToken.secretKey` is the key inside the secret data. This should be the same
as the key you passed when creating the  ACL replication token secret in Vault.

Commit message:

Made changes based on Adams suggestions (#13490)
* Made changes based on Adams suggestions

* updating list layout in systems integration guide.  updating wan federation docs.

* fixing env vars on systems integration page

* fixing h3 to h2 on enterprise license page

* Changed `The following steps will be performed` to `Complete the following steps`

* Replaced `These steps will be repeated for each datacenter` with `Repeat the following steps for each datacenter in the cluster`

* Emphasizing that kv2 secrets only need to be stored once.

* Move the sentence indicating where the vault path maps to the helm chart out of the -> Note callout

* remaining suggestions

* Removing store the secret in Vault from server-tls page

* Making the Bootstrapping the Server PKI Engine sections the same on server-tls and webhook-cert pages

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Updating VAULT_ADDR on systems-integration to get it out of the shell.

* Updating intro paragraph of Overview on systems-integration.mdx to what Adamsuggested.

* Putting the GKE, AKS, AKS info into tabs on the systems integration page.

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration/bootstrap-token.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Storing the ACL Bootstrap Token in Vault
description: >-
  Configuring the Consul Helm chart to use an ACL bootstrap token stored in Vault.
---

# Storing the ACL Bootstrap Token in Vault

This topic describes how to configure the Consul Helm chart to use an ACL bootstrap token stored in Vault.
## Overview
To use an ACL bootstrap token stored in Vault, follow the steps outlined in the [Data Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section.

Complete the following steps once:
  1. Store the secret in Vault.
  1. Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret.

Repeat the following steps for each datacenter in the cluster:
  1. Create Vault Kubernetes auth roles that link the policy to each Consul on Kubernetes service account that requires access.
  1. Update the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart.

## Prerequisites
Prior to setting up the data integration between Vault and Consul on Kubernetes, you will need to have:
1. Read and completed the steps in the [Systems Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/systems-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).
2. Read the [Data Integration Overview](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).

## Store the Secret in Vault

First, generate and store the ACL bootstrap token in Vault. You will only need to perform this action once:

```shell-session
$ vault kv put secret/consul/bootstrap-token token="$(uuidgen | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')"
```

## Create Vault policy

Next, you will need to create a Vault policy that allows read access to this secret.

The path to the secret referenced in the `path` resource is the same value that you will configure in the  `global.acls.bootstrapToken.secretName` Helm configuration (refer to [Update Consul on Kubernetes Helm chart](#update-consul-on-kubernetes-helm-chart)).

<CodeBlockConfig filename="bootstrap-token-policy.hcl">

```HCL
path "secret/data/consul/bootstrap-token" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Apply the Vault policy by issuing the `vault policy write` CLI command:

```shell-session
$ vault policy write bootstrap-token-policy bootstrap-token-policy.hcl
```

## Create Vault Authorization Roles for Consul

Next, you will create Kubernetes auth roles for the Consul `server-acl-init` container that runs as part of the Consul server statefulset:

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server-acl-init \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul server service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=bootstrap-token-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

To find out the service account name of the Consul server-acl-init job (i.e. the Consul server service account name),
you can run the following `helm template` command with your Consul on Kubernetes values file:

```shell-session
$ helm template --release-name ${RELEASE_NAME} -s templates/server-acl-init-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

## Update Consul on Kubernetes Helm chart

Now that you have configured Vault, you can configure the Consul Helm chart to
use the  ACL bootstrap token in Vault:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

```yaml
global:
  secretsBackend:
    vault:
      enabled: true
      manageSystemACLsRole: consul-server-acl-init
  acls:
    bootstrapToken:
      secretName: secret/data/consul/bootstrap-token
      secretKey: token
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note that `global.acls.bootstrapToken.secretName` is the path of the secret in Vault.
This should be the same path as the one you included in your Vault policy.
`global.acls.bootstrapToken.secretKey` is the key inside the secret data. This should be the same
as the key you passed when creating the  ACL replication token secret in Vault.
