website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration/partition-token.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Storing the ACL Partition Token in Vault
description: >-
  Configuring the Consul Helm chart to use an ACL partition token stored in Vault.
---

# Storing the ACL Partition Token in Vault

## Prerequisites
Prior to setting up the data integration between Vault and Consul on Kubernetes, you will need to have:  
1. Read and completed the steps in the [Systems Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/systems-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).
2. Read the [Data Integration Overview](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).

## Overview
To use an ACL partition token stored in Vault, we will follow the steps outlined in the [Data Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section:

### One time setup in Vault
  1. Store the secret in Vault.
  1. Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret.

### Setup per Consul datacenter
  1. Create Vault Kubernetes auth roles that link the policy to each Consul on Kubernetes service account that requires access.
  1. Configure the Vault Kubernetes auth role in the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart.

## One time setup in Vault
### Store the Secret in Vault

First, store the ACL partition token in Vault:

```shell-session
$ vault kv put secret/consul/partition-token token="<ACL partition Token>"
```

### Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret

-> **Note:** The secret path referenced by the Vault Policy below will be your `global.acls.partitionToken.secretName` Helm value.

Next, you will need to create a policy that allows read access to this secret:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="partition-token-policy.hcl">

```HCL
path "secret/data/consul/partition-token" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Apply the Vault policy by issuing the `vault policy write` CLI command:

```shell-session
$ vault policy write partition-token-policy partition-token-policy.hcl
```

## Setup per Consul datacenter
### Create Vault Kubernetes auth roles that link the policy to each Consul on Kubernetes service account that requires access

Next, you will create Kubernetes auth roles for the Consul `server-acl-init` job:

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server-acl-init \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul server service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=partition-token-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

To find out the service account name of the Consul server,
you can run the following `helm template` command with your Consul on Kubernetes values file:

```shell-session
$ helm template --release-name ${RELEASE_NAME} -s templates/server-acl-init-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

### Configure the Vault Kubernetes auth role in the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart

Now that you have configured Vault, you can configure the Consul Helm chart to
use the  ACL partition token key in Vault:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

```yaml
global:
  secretsBackend:
    vault:
      enabled: true
      manageSystemACLsRole: consul-server-acl-init
  acls:
    partitionToken:
      secretName: secret/data/consul/partition-token
      secretKey: token
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note that `global.acls.partitionToken.secretName` is the path of the secret in Vault.
This should be the same path as the one you included in your Vault policy.
`global.acls.partitionToken.secretKey` is the key inside the secret data. This should be the same
as the key you passed when creating the  ACL partition token secret in Vault.

Commit message:

docs: update acl token generation with uuidgen (#12821)
* update acl token generation with uuidgen

website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration/partition-token.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Storing the ACL Partition Token in Vault
description: >-
  Configuring the Consul Helm chart to use an ACL partition token stored in Vault.
---

# Storing the ACL Partition Token in Vault

## Prerequisites
Prior to setting up the data integration between Vault and Consul on Kubernetes, you will need to have:
1. Read and completed the steps in the [Systems Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/systems-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).
2. Read the [Data Integration Overview](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).

## Overview
To use an ACL partition token stored in Vault, we will follow the steps outlined in the [Data Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section:

### One time setup in Vault
  1. Store the secret in Vault.
  1. Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret.

### Setup per Consul datacenter
  1. Create Vault Kubernetes auth roles that link the policy to each Consul on Kubernetes service account that requires access.
  1. Configure the Vault Kubernetes auth role in the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart.

## One time setup in Vault
### Generate and Store the Secret in Vault

First, generate and store the ACL partition token in Vault:

```shell-session
$ vault kv put secret/consul/partition-token token="$(uuidgen | tr '[:upper:]' '[:lower:]')"
```

### Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret

-> **Note:** The secret path referenced by the Vault Policy below will be your `global.acls.partitionToken.secretName` Helm value.

Next, you will need to create a policy that allows read access to this secret:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="partition-token-policy.hcl">

```HCL
path "secret/data/consul/partition-token" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Apply the Vault policy by issuing the `vault policy write` CLI command:

```shell-session
$ vault policy write partition-token-policy partition-token-policy.hcl
```

## Setup per Consul datacenter
### Create Vault Kubernetes auth roles that link the policy to each Consul on Kubernetes service account that requires access

Next, you will create Kubernetes auth roles for the Consul `server-acl-init` job:

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server-acl-init \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul server service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=partition-token-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

To find out the service account name of the Consul server,
you can run the following `helm template` command with your Consul on Kubernetes values file:

```shell-session
$ helm template --release-name ${RELEASE_NAME} -s templates/server-acl-init-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

### Configure the Vault Kubernetes auth role in the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart

Now that you have configured Vault, you can configure the Consul Helm chart to
use the  ACL partition token key in Vault:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

```yaml
global:
  secretsBackend:
    vault:
      enabled: true
      manageSystemACLsRole: consul-server-acl-init
  acls:
    partitionToken:
      secretName: secret/data/consul/partition-token
      secretKey: token
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note that `global.acls.partitionToken.secretName` is the path of the secret in Vault.
This should be the same path as the one you included in your Vault policy.
`global.acls.partitionToken.secretKey` is the key inside the secret data. This should be the same
as the key you passed when creating the  ACL partition token secret in Vault.
