website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration/server-tls.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault as the Server TLS Certificate Provider on Kubernetes
description: >-
  Configuring the Consul Helm chart to use TLS certificates issued by Vault for the Consul server.
---

# Vault as the Server TLS Certificate Provider on Kubernetes
## Prerequisites
Prior to setting up the data integration between Vault and Consul on Kubernetes, you will need to have:  
1. Read and completed the steps in the [Systems Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/systems-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).
2. Read the [Data Integration Overview](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).
3. Complete the [Bootstrapping the PKI Engine](#bootstrapping-the-pki-engine) section.

### Bootstrapping the PKI Engine

First, we need to bootstrap the Vault cluster by enabling and configuring the PKI Secrets Engine to be able to serve
TLS certificates to Consul. The process can be as simple as the following, or more complicated such as in this [example](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/vault-pki-consul-secure-tls)
which also uses an intermediate signing authority.

* Enable the PKI Secrets Engine:

  ```shell-session
  $ vault secrets enable pki
  ```

* Tune the engine to enable longer TTL:

  ```shell-session
  $ vault secrets tune -max-lease-ttl=87600h pki
  ```

* Generate the root CA:

  -> **Note:** The `common_name` value is comprised of combining `global.datacenter` dot `global.domain`.

  ```shell-session
  $ vault write -field=certificate pki/root/generate/internal \
          common_name="dc1.consul" \
          ttl=87600h
  ```


## Overview
To use an Vault as the Server TLS Certificate Provider on Kubernetes, we will need to modify the steps outlined in the [Data Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section:

### One time setup in Vault
  1. Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret.

### Setup per Consul datacenter
  1. (Added) Create a Vault PKI role that establishes the domains that it is allowed to issue certificates for
  1. Create Vault Kubernetes auth roles that link the policy to each Consul on Kubernetes service account that requires access.
  1. Configure the Vault Kubernetes auth role in the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart.

## One time setup in Vault
### Store the secret in Vault

This step is not valid to this use case because we are not storing a single secret.  We are configuring Vault as a provider to mint certificates on an ongoing basis.

### Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret
To use Vault to issue Server TLS certificates, you will need to create the following:

1. Vault Policies that will allow the Consul server to access the certificate issuing url.
1. Vault Policies that will allow the Consul components, e.g. ingress gateways, controller, to access the CA url.

#### Create Vault Policies for the Server TLS Certificates

-> **Note:** The PKI secret path referenced by the Vault Policy below will be your `server.serverCert.secretName` Helm value.

Next we will create a policy that allows `["create", "update"]` access to the
[certificate issuing URL](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/secret/pki#generate-certificate) so the Consul servers can
fetch a new certificate/key pair.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="consul-server-policy.hcl">

```HCL
path "pki/issue/consul-server" {
  capabilities = ["create", "update"]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Apply the Vault policy by issuing the `vault policy write` CLI command:

```shell-session
$ vault policy write consul-server consul-server-policy.hcl
```

#### Create Vault Policies for the CA URL

Next, we will create a policy that allows `["read"]` access to the [CA URL](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/secret/pki#read-certificate),
this is required for the Consul components to communicate with the Consul servers in order to fetch their auto-encryption certificates.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="ca-policy.hcl">

```HCL
path "pki/cert/ca" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

```shell-session
$ vault policy write ca-policy ca-policy.hcl
```

-> **Note:** The PKI secret path referenced by the above Policy will be your `global.tls.caCert.secretName` Helm value.

## Setup per Consul datacenter
### Create a Vault PKI role that establishes the domains that it is allowed to issue certificates for

Next, a Vault role for the PKI engine will set the default certificate issuance parameters:

```shell-session
$ vault write pki/roles/consul-server \
    allowed_domains="<Allowed-domains-string>" \
    allow_subdomains=true \
    allow_bare_domains=true \
    allow_localhost=true \
    generate_lease=true \
    max_ttl="720h"
```

To generate the `<Allowed-domains-string>` use the following script as a template:

```shell-session
#!/bin/sh

# NAME is set to either the value from `global.name` from your Consul K8s value file, or your $HELM_RELEASE_NAME-consul
export NAME=consulk8s
# NAMESPACE is where the Consul on Kubernetes is installed
export NAMESPACE=consul
# DATACENTER is the value of `global.datacenter` from your Helm values config file
export DATACENTER=dc1

echo allowed_domains=\"$DATACENTER.consul, $NAME-server, $NAME-server.$NAMESPACE, $NAME-server.$NAMESPACE.svc\"
```

### Create a Vault auth roles that link the policy to each Consul on Kubernetes service account that requires access
Finally, three Kubernetes auth roles need to be created, one for the Consul servers, one for the Consul clients, and one for Consul components.

Role for Consul servers:
```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul server service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=consul-server \
    ttl=1h
```

To find out the service account name of the Consul server,
you can run:

```shell-session
 $ helm template --release-name ${RELEASE_NAME} --show-only templates/server-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

Role for Consul clients:

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul client service account>  \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=default \
    policies=ca-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

To find out the service account name of the Consul client, use the command below.
```shell-session
 $ helm template --release-name ${RELEASE_NAME} --show-only templates/client-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

Role for CA components:
```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-ca \
    bound_service_account_names="*" \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=ca-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

The above Vault Roles will now be your Helm values for `global.secretsBackend.vault.consulServerRole` and
`global.secretsBackend.vault.consulCARole` respectively.

### Configure the Vault Kubernetes auth role in the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart

Now that we've configured Vault, you can configure the Consul Helm chart to
use the Server TLS certificates from Vault:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

```yaml
global:
  secretsBackend:
    vault:
      enabled: true
      consulServerRole: consul-server
      consulClientRole: consul-client
      consulCARole: consul-ca
  tls:
    enableAutoEncrypt: true
    enabled: true
    caCert:
      secretName: "pki/cert/ca"
server:
  serverCert:
    secretName: "pki/issue/consul-server"
  extraVolumes:
    - type: "secret"
      name: <vaultCASecret>
      load: "false"
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

The `vaultCASecret` is the Kubernetes secret that stores the CA Certificate that is used for Vault communication. To provide a CA, you first need to create a Kubernetes secret containing the CA. For example, you may create a secret with the Vault CA like so:

```shell-session
$ kubectl create secret generic vault-ca --from-file vault.ca=/path/to/your/vault/
```

Commit message:

Docs - k8s - Webhook Certs on Vault (#13441)
* Docs - k8s - Webhook Certs on Vault

* Adding webhook certs to data-integration overview page

* marking items as code

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Updating prerequisites intro

* Updating prerequisites intro

* Updating `Create a Vault auth roles that link the policy to each Consul on Kubernetes service account that requires access` to `Link the Vault policy to Consul workloads`

* changing `Configure the Vault Kubernetes auth role in the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart` to `Update the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart`.

* Changed `Create a Vault PKI role that establishes the domains that it is allowed to issue certificates for` to `Configure allowed domains for PKI certificates`

* Moved `Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret` to the Set up per Consul Datacenter section

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration/webhook-certs.mdx

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Moving Overview above Prerequisites.  Adding sentence where missing after page title.

* Moving Overview above Prerequisites for webhook certs page.

* fixing the end of the overview section that was not moved.

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration/server-tls.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault as the Server TLS Certificate Provider on Kubernetes
description: >-
  Configuring the Consul Helm chart to use TLS certificates issued by Vault for the Consul server.
---

# Vault as the Server TLS Certificate Provider on Kubernetes

## Overview
To use an Vault as the Server TLS Certificate Provider on Kubernetes, we will need to modify the steps outlined in the [Data Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section:

### One time setup in Vault
  1. Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret.

### Setup per Consul datacenter
  1. (Added) Configure allowed domains for PKI certificates
  1. Create Vault Kubernetes auth roles that link the policy to each Consul on Kubernetes service account that requires access.
  1. Update the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart.

## Prerequisites
Prior to setting up the data integration between Vault and Consul on Kubernetes, you will need to have:  
1. Read and completed the steps in the [Systems Integration](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/systems-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).
2. Read the [Data Integration Overview](/docs/k8s/installation/vault/data-integration) section of [Vault as a Secrets Backend](/docs/k8s/installation/vault).
3. Complete the [Bootstrapping the PKI Engine](#bootstrapping-the-pki-engine) section.

### Bootstrapping the PKI Engine

First, we need to bootstrap the Vault cluster by enabling and configuring the PKI Secrets Engine to be able to serve
TLS certificates to Consul. The process can be as simple as the following, or more complicated such as in this [example](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/vault-pki-consul-secure-tls)
which also uses an intermediate signing authority.

* Enable the PKI Secrets Engine:

  ```shell-session
  $ vault secrets enable pki
  ```

* Tune the engine to enable longer TTL:

  ```shell-session
  $ vault secrets tune -max-lease-ttl=87600h pki
  ```

* Generate the root CA:

  -> **Note:** The `common_name` value is comprised of combining `global.datacenter` dot `global.domain`.

  ```shell-session
  $ vault write -field=certificate pki/root/generate/internal \
          common_name="dc1.consul" \
          ttl=87600h
  ```
## One time setup in Vault
### Store the secret in Vault

This step is not valid to this use case because we are not storing a single secret.  We are configuring Vault as a provider to mint certificates on an ongoing basis.

### Create a Vault policy that authorizes the desired level of access to the secret
To use Vault to issue Server TLS certificates, you will need to create the following:

1. Vault Policies that will allow the Consul server to access the certificate issuing url.
1. Vault Policies that will allow the Consul components, e.g. ingress gateways, controller, to access the CA url.

#### Create Vault Policies for the Server TLS Certificates

-> **Note:** The PKI secret path referenced by the Vault Policy below will be your `server.serverCert.secretName` Helm value.

Next we will create a policy that allows `["create", "update"]` access to the
[certificate issuing URL](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/secret/pki#generate-certificate) so the Consul servers can
fetch a new certificate/key pair.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="consul-server-policy.hcl">

```HCL
path "pki/issue/consul-server" {
  capabilities = ["create", "update"]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Apply the Vault policy by issuing the `vault policy write` CLI command:

```shell-session
$ vault policy write consul-server consul-server-policy.hcl
```

#### Create Vault Policies for the CA URL

Next, we will create a policy that allows `["read"]` access to the [CA URL](https://www.vaultproject.io/api/secret/pki#read-certificate),
this is required for the Consul components to communicate with the Consul servers in order to fetch their auto-encryption certificates.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="ca-policy.hcl">

```HCL
path "pki/cert/ca" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

```shell-session
$ vault policy write ca-policy ca-policy.hcl
```

-> **Note:** The PKI secret path referenced by the above Policy will be your `global.tls.caCert.secretName` Helm value.

## Setup per Consul datacenter
### Configure allowed domains for PKI certificates

Next, a Vault role for the PKI engine will set the default certificate issuance parameters:

```shell-session
$ vault write pki/roles/consul-server \
    allowed_domains="<Allowed-domains-string>" \
    allow_subdomains=true \
    allow_bare_domains=true \
    allow_localhost=true \
    generate_lease=true \
    max_ttl="720h"
```

To generate the `<Allowed-domains-string>` use the following script as a template:

```shell-session
#!/bin/sh

# NAME is set to either the value from `global.name` from your Consul K8s value file, or your $HELM_RELEASE_NAME-consul
export NAME=consulk8s
# NAMESPACE is where the Consul on Kubernetes is installed
export NAMESPACE=consul
# DATACENTER is the value of `global.datacenter` from your Helm values config file
export DATACENTER=dc1

echo allowed_domains=\"$DATACENTER.consul, $NAME-server, $NAME-server.$NAMESPACE, $NAME-server.$NAMESPACE.svc\"
```

### Link the Vault policies to Consul workloads
Create three Vault auth roles, one for the Consul servers, one for the Consul clients, and one for Consul components, that link the policy to each Consul workload on Kubernetes service account that requires access.

Role for Consul servers:
```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul server service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=consul-server \
    ttl=1h
```

To find out the service account name of the Consul server,
you can run:

```shell-session
 $ helm template --release-name ${RELEASE_NAME} --show-only templates/server-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

Role for Consul clients:

```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul client service account>  \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=default \
    policies=ca-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

To find out the service account name of the Consul client, use the command below.
```shell-session
 $ helm template --release-name ${RELEASE_NAME} --show-only templates/client-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

Role for CA components:
```shell-session
$ vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-ca \
    bound_service_account_names="*" \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=ca-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

The above Vault Roles will now be your Helm values for `global.secretsBackend.vault.consulServerRole` and
`global.secretsBackend.vault.consulCARole` respectively.

### Update the Consul on Kubernetes helm chart

Now that we've configured Vault, you can configure the Consul Helm chart to
use the Server TLS certificates from Vault:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">

```yaml
global:
  secretsBackend:
    vault:
      enabled: true
      consulServerRole: consul-server
      consulClientRole: consul-client
      consulCARole: consul-ca
  tls:
    enableAutoEncrypt: true
    enabled: true
    caCert:
      secretName: "pki/cert/ca"
server:
  serverCert:
    secretName: "pki/issue/consul-server"
  extraVolumes:
    - type: "secret"
      name: <vaultCASecret>
      load: "false"
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

The `vaultCASecret` is the Kubernetes secret that stores the CA Certificate that is used for Vault communication. To provide a CA, you first need to create a Kubernetes secret containing the CA. For example, you may create a secret with the Vault CA like so:

```shell-session
$ kubectl create secret generic vault-ca --from-file vault.ca=/path/to/your/vault/
```
