website/content/commands/keyring.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Keyring'
---

# Consul Keyring

Command: `consul keyring`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoints: [\[VARIES\] /v1/operator/keyring](/consul/api-docs/operator/keyring)

The `keyring` command is used to examine and modify the encryption keys used in
Consul's [Gossip Pools](/consul/docs/architecture/gossip). It is capable of
distributing new encryption keys to the cluster, retiring old encryption keys,
and changing the keys used by the cluster to encrypt messages.

Consul allows multiple encryption keys to be in use simultaneously. This is
intended to provide a transition state while the cluster converges. It is the
responsibility of the operator to ensure that only the required encryption keys
are installed on the cluster. You can review the installed keys using the
`-list` argument, and remove unneeded keys with `-remove`.

All operations performed by this command can only be run against server nodes,
and affect both the LAN and WAN keyrings in lock-step. The only exception to this
is for the `-list` operation, you may set the `-local-only` flag to only query
against local server nodes.

All variations of the `keyring` command return 0 if all nodes reply and there
are no errors. If any node fails to reply or reports failure, the exit code
will be 1.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required<sup>1</sup>            |
| ----------------------------------- |
| `keyring:read`<br />`keyring:write` |

<p>
  <sup>1</sup> The actual ACL required depends on the flags being used in the
  command.
</p>

## Usage

Usage: `consul keyring [options]`

Only one actionable argument may be specified per run, including `-list`,
`-install`, `-remove`, and `-use`.

#### Command Options

- `-list` - List all keys currently in use within the cluster.

- `-list-primary` - List all primary keys currently in use within the cluster.

- `-install` - Install a new encryption key. This will broadcast the new key to
  all members in the cluster.

- `-use` - Change the primary encryption key, which is used to encrypt messages.
  The key must already be installed before this operation can succeed.

- `-remove` - Remove the given key from the cluster. This operation may only be
  performed on keys which are not currently the primary key.

- `-relay-factor` - Added in Consul 0.7.4, setting this to a non-zero value will
  cause nodes to relay their response to the operation through this many
  randomly-chosen other nodes in the cluster. The maximum allowed value is 5.

- `-local-only` - Setting this to true will force a keyring list query to only hit
  local servers (no WAN traffic). Setting `local-only` is only allowed for list
  queries.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

## Output

The output of the `consul keyring -list` command consolidates information from
all nodes and all datacenters to provide a simple and easy to understand view of
the cluster. The following is some example output from a cluster with two
datacenters, each which consist of one server and one client:

```text
==> Gathering installed encryption keys...
==> Done!

WAN:
  a1i101sMY8rxB+0eAKD/gw== [2/2]

dc2 (LAN):
  a1i101sMY8rxB+0eAKD/gw== [2/2]

dc1 (LAN):
  a1i101sMY8rxB+0eAKD/gw== [2/2]

dc1 (LAN) [alpha]:
  a1i101sMY8rxB+0eAKD/gw== [2/2]
```

As you can see, the output above is divided first by gossip pool, including any network
segments, and then by encryption key. The indicator to the right of each key displays
the number of nodes the key is installed on over the total number of nodes in the pool.

## Errors

If any errors are encountered while performing a keyring operation, no key
information is displayed, but instead only error information. The error
information is arranged in a similar fashion, organized first by datacenter,
followed by a simple list of nodes which had errors, and the actual text of the
error. Below is sample output from the same cluster as above, if we try to do
something that causes an error; in this case, trying to remove the primary key:

```text
==> Removing gossip encryption key...

dc1 (LAN) error: 2/2 nodes reported failure
  server1: Removing the primary key is not allowed
  client1: Removing the primary key is not allowed

WAN error: 2/2 nodes reported failure
  server1.dc1: Removing the primary key is not allowed
  server2.dc2: Removing the primary key is not allowed

dc2 (LAN) error: 2/2 nodes reported failure
  server2: Removing the primary key is not allowed
  client2: Removing the primary key is not allowed
```

As you can see, each node with a failure reported what went wrong.

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/keyring.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Keyring'
description: >-
  The `consul keyring` command lists active encryption keys used for gossip pools and enables you to rotate keys for large deployments automatically. 
---

# Consul Keyring

Command: `consul keyring`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoints: [\[VARIES\] /v1/operator/keyring](/consul/api-docs/operator/keyring)

The `keyring` command is used to examine and modify the encryption keys used in
Consul's [Gossip Pools](/consul/docs/architecture/gossip). It is capable of
distributing new encryption keys to the cluster, retiring old encryption keys,
and changing the keys used by the cluster to encrypt messages.

Consul allows multiple encryption keys to be in use simultaneously. This is
intended to provide a transition state while the cluster converges. It is the
responsibility of the operator to ensure that only the required encryption keys
are installed on the cluster. You can review the installed keys using the
`-list` argument, and remove unneeded keys with `-remove`.

All operations performed by this command can only be run against server nodes,
and affect both the LAN and WAN keyrings in lock-step. The only exception to this
is for the `-list` operation, you may set the `-local-only` flag to only query
against local server nodes.

All variations of the `keyring` command return 0 if all nodes reply and there
are no errors. If any node fails to reply or reports failure, the exit code
will be 1.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required<sup>1</sup>            |
| ----------------------------------- |
| `keyring:read`<br />`keyring:write` |

<p>
  <sup>1</sup> The actual ACL required depends on the flags being used in the
  command.
</p>

## Usage

Usage: `consul keyring [options]`

Only one actionable argument may be specified per run, including `-list`,
`-install`, `-remove`, and `-use`.

#### Command Options

- `-list` - List all keys currently in use within the cluster.

- `-list-primary` - List all primary keys currently in use within the cluster.

- `-install` - Install a new encryption key. This will broadcast the new key to
  all members in the cluster.

- `-use` - Change the primary encryption key, which is used to encrypt messages.
  The key must already be installed before this operation can succeed.

- `-remove` - Remove the given key from the cluster. This operation may only be
  performed on keys which are not currently the primary key.

- `-relay-factor` - Added in Consul 0.7.4, setting this to a non-zero value will
  cause nodes to relay their response to the operation through this many
  randomly-chosen other nodes in the cluster. The maximum allowed value is 5.

- `-local-only` - Setting this to true will force a keyring list query to only hit
  local servers (no WAN traffic). Setting `local-only` is only allowed for list
  queries.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

## Output

The output of the `consul keyring -list` command consolidates information from
all nodes and all datacenters to provide a simple and easy to understand view of
the cluster. The following is some example output from a cluster with two
datacenters, each which consist of one server and one client:

```text
==> Gathering installed encryption keys...
==> Done!

WAN:
  a1i101sMY8rxB+0eAKD/gw== [2/2]

dc2 (LAN):
  a1i101sMY8rxB+0eAKD/gw== [2/2]

dc1 (LAN):
  a1i101sMY8rxB+0eAKD/gw== [2/2]

dc1 (LAN) [alpha]:
  a1i101sMY8rxB+0eAKD/gw== [2/2]
```

As you can see, the output above is divided first by gossip pool, including any network
segments, and then by encryption key. The indicator to the right of each key displays
the number of nodes the key is installed on over the total number of nodes in the pool.

## Errors

If any errors are encountered while performing a keyring operation, no key
information is displayed, but instead only error information. The error
information is arranged in a similar fashion, organized first by datacenter,
followed by a simple list of nodes which had errors, and the actual text of the
error. Below is sample output from the same cluster as above, if we try to do
something that causes an error; in this case, trying to remove the primary key:

```text
==> Removing gossip encryption key...

dc1 (LAN) error: 2/2 nodes reported failure
  server1: Removing the primary key is not allowed
  client1: Removing the primary key is not allowed

WAN error: 2/2 nodes reported failure
  server1.dc1: Removing the primary key is not allowed
  server2.dc2: Removing the primary key is not allowed

dc2 (LAN) error: 2/2 nodes reported failure
  server2: Removing the primary key is not allowed
  client2: Removing the primary key is not allowed
```

As you can see, each node with a failure reported what went wrong.
