website/content/commands/maint.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Maint'
description: |
  The `maint` command provides control of both service and node maintenance mode
---

# Consul Maint

Command: `consul maint`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/agent/maintenance](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/agent#enable-maintenance-mode)

The `maint` command provides control of service maintenance mode.
Using the command, it is possible to mark a service provided by a node or all the services on the
node as a whole as "under maintenance". In this mode of operation, the service
will not appear in DNS query results, or API results. This effectively
takes the service out of the pool of available "healthy" nodes of a service.

Under the hood, maintenance mode is activated by registering a health check in
critical status against a service, and deactivated by deregistering the
health check.

## Usage

Usage: `consul maint [options]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-enable` - Enable node-wide maintenance mode flag. If combined with the
  `-service` flag, we operate on a specific service ID instead. Node and
  service maintenance flags are independent.

- `-disable` - Disable the node-wide maintenance flag. If combined with the
  `-service` flag, we operate on a specific service ID instead. Node and
  service maintenance flags are independent.

- `-reason` - An optional reason for placing the service into
  maintenance mode. If provided, this reason will be visible in the newly-
  registered critical check's "Notes" field.

- `-service` - An optional service ID to control maintenance mode for a given service. By
  providing this flag, the `-enable` and `-disable` flags functionality is
  modified to operate on the given service ID.

## List mode

If neither `-enable` nor `-disable` are passed, the `maint` command will
switch to "list mode", displaying any current maintenances. This may return
blank if nothing is currently under maintenance. The output will look like:

```shell-session
$ consul maint
Node:
  Name:   node1.local
  Reason: This node is broken.

Service:
  ID:     redis
  Reason: Redis is currently offline.
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/maint.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Maint'
description: |
  The `maint` command provides control of both service and node maintenance mode
---

# Consul Maint

Command: `consul maint`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/agent/maintenance](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/agent#enable-maintenance-mode)

The `maint` command provides control of service maintenance mode.
Using the command, it is possible to mark a service provided by a node or all the services on the
node as a whole as "under maintenance". In this mode of operation, the service
will not appear in DNS query results, or API results. This effectively
takes the service out of the pool of available "healthy" nodes of a service.

Under the hood, maintenance mode is activated by registering a health check in
critical status against a service, and deactivated by deregistering the
health check.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `node:write` |

## Usage

Usage: `consul maint [options]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-enable` - Enable node-wide maintenance mode flag. If combined with the
  `-service` flag, we operate on a specific service ID instead. Node and
  service maintenance flags are independent.

- `-disable` - Disable the node-wide maintenance flag. If combined with the
  `-service` flag, we operate on a specific service ID instead. Node and
  service maintenance flags are independent.

- `-reason` - An optional reason for placing the service into
  maintenance mode. If provided, this reason will be visible in the newly-
  registered critical check's "Notes" field.

- `-service` - An optional service ID to control maintenance mode for a given service. By
  providing this flag, the `-enable` and `-disable` flags functionality is
  modified to operate on the given service ID.

## List mode

If neither `-enable` nor `-disable` are passed, the `maint` command will
switch to "list mode", displaying any current maintenances. This may return
blank if nothing is currently under maintenance. The output will look like:

```shell-session
$ consul maint
Node:
  Name:   node1.local
  Reason: This node is broken.

Service:
  ID:     redis
  Reason: Redis is currently offline.
```
