website/content/commands/acl/role/create.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Role Create'
---

# Consul ACL Role Create

Command: `consul acl role create`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/role](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/roles#create-a-role)

The `acl role create` command creates new roles.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl role create [options] [args]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the role.

- `-meta` - Indicates that role metadata such as the content hash and raft
  indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-name=<string>` - The new role's name. This flag is required.

- `-node-identity=<value>` - Name of a node identity to use for this role. May
  be specified multiple times. Format is `NODENAME:DATACENTER`. Added in Consul
  1.8.1.

- `-policy-id=<value>` - ID of a policy to use for this role. May be specified
  multiple times

- `-policy-name=<value>` - Name of a policy to use for this role. May be
  specified multiple times

- `-service-identity=<value>` - Name of a service identity to use for this
  role. May be specified multiple times. Format is the `SERVICENAME` or
  `SERVICENAME:DATACENTER1,DATACENTER2,...`

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Create a new role with one policy:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role create -name "crawler" -description "web crawler role" -policy-name "crawler-kv"
ID:           57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9
Name:         crawler
Description:  web crawler role
Policies:
   2f8f99c7-edd9-2f09-7e4b-a1f519eb4fc2 - crawler-kv
```

Create a new role with one service identity:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role create -name archiver -description 'archiver role' -service-identity "archiver:dc2"
ID:           a365fdc9-ac71-e754-0645-7ab6bd747301
Name:         archiver
Description:  archiver role
Service Identities:
   archiver (Datacenters: dc2)
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/acl/role/create.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Role Create'
---

# Consul ACL Role Create

Command: `consul acl role create`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/role](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/roles#create-a-role)

The `acl role create` command creates new roles.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl role create [options] [args]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the role.

- `-meta` - Indicates that role metadata such as the content hash and raft
  indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-name=<string>` - The new role's name. This flag is required.

- `-node-identity=<value>` - Name of a node identity to use for this role. May
  be specified multiple times. Format is `NODENAME:DATACENTER`. Added in Consul
  1.8.1.

- `-policy-id=<value>` - ID of a policy to use for this role. May be specified
  multiple times

- `-policy-name=<value>` - Name of a policy to use for this role. May be
  specified multiple times

- `-service-identity=<value>` - Name of a service identity to use for this
  role. May be specified multiple times. Format is the `SERVICENAME` or
  `SERVICENAME:DATACENTER1,DATACENTER2,...`

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Create a new role with one policy:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role create -name "crawler" -description "web crawler role" -policy-name "crawler-kv"
ID:           57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9
Name:         crawler
Description:  web crawler role
Policies:
   2f8f99c7-edd9-2f09-7e4b-a1f519eb4fc2 - crawler-kv
```

Create a new role with one service identity:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role create -name archiver -description 'archiver role' -service-identity "archiver:dc2"
ID:           a365fdc9-ac71-e754-0645-7ab6bd747301
Name:         archiver
Description:  archiver role
Service Identities:
   archiver (Datacenters: dc2)
```
