website/content/commands/acl/role/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Role'
---

# Consul ACL Roles

Command: `consul acl role`

The `acl role` command is used to manage Consul's ACL roles.
It exposes commands for creating, updating, reading, deleting, and listing roles.
This command is available in Consul 1.5.0 and newer.

ACL roles may also be managed via the [HTTP API](/consul/api-docs/acl/roles).

-> **Note:** All of the example subcommands in this document will require a valid
Consul token with the appropriate permissions. Either set the
`CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable to the token's secret ID or pass the
secret ID as the value of the `-token` parameter.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl role <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul acl role -h` to view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul acl role <subcommand> [options] [args]

  ...

Subcommands:
    create    Create an ACL role
    delete    Delete an ACL role
    list      Lists ACL roles
    read      Read an ACL role
    update    Update an ACL role
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Identifying Roles

Several of the subcommands need to operate on a specific role. Those
subcommands support specifying the role by its ID using the `-id` parameter
or by name using the `-name` parameter.

When specifying the role by its ID a unique role ID prefix may be specified
instead of the entire UUID. As long as it is unique it will be resolved to the
full UUID and used.

## Basic Examples

Create a new ACL role:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role create -name "new-role" \
                       -description "This is an example role" \
                       -policy-id 06acc965
```

List all roles:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role list
```

Update a role:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role update -name "other-role" -datacenter "dc1"
```

Read a role:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role read -id 0479e93e-091c-4475-9b06-79a004765c24
```

Delete a role

```shell-session
$ consul acl role delete -name "my-role"
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/acl/role/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Role'
description: |
  The `consul acl role` command interacts with Consul's ACL roles. It exposes commands for creating, updating, reading, deleting, and listing roles. Roles consist of one or more ACL policies authorizing communication in the service mesh.
---

# Consul ACL Roles

Command: `consul acl role`

The `acl role` command is used to manage Consul's ACL roles.
It exposes commands for creating, updating, reading, deleting, and listing roles.
This command is available in Consul 1.5.0 and newer.

ACL roles may also be managed via the [HTTP API](/consul/api-docs/acl/roles).

-> **Note:** All of the example subcommands in this document will require a valid
Consul token with the appropriate permissions. Either set the
`CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable to the token's secret ID or pass the
secret ID as the value of the `-token` parameter.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl role <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul acl role -h` to view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul acl role <subcommand> [options] [args]

  ...

Subcommands:
    create    Create an ACL role
    delete    Delete an ACL role
    list      Lists ACL roles
    read      Read an ACL role
    update    Update an ACL role
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Identifying Roles

Several of the subcommands need to operate on a specific role. Those
subcommands support specifying the role by its ID using the `-id` parameter
or by name using the `-name` parameter.

When specifying the role by its ID a unique role ID prefix may be specified
instead of the entire UUID. As long as it is unique it will be resolved to the
full UUID and used.

## Basic Examples

Create a new ACL role:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role create -name "new-role" \
                       -description "This is an example role" \
                       -policy-id 06acc965
```

List all roles:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role list
```

Update a role:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role update -name "other-role" -datacenter "dc1"
```

Read a role:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role read -id 0479e93e-091c-4475-9b06-79a004765c24
```

Delete a role

```shell-session
$ consul acl role delete -name "my-role"
```
