website/content/commands/acl/role/list.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Role List'
---

# Consul ACL Role List

Command: `consul acl role list`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/roles](/consul/api-docs/acl/roles#list-roles)

The `acl role list` command lists all roles. By default it will not show metadata.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:read`   |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl role list`

#### Command Options

- `-meta` - Indicates that role metadata such as the content hash and
  Raft indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Default listing.

```shell-session
$ consul acl role list
web-crawler:
   ID:           57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9
   Description:  web crawler updated role
   Policies:
      2f8f99c7-edd9-2f09-7e4b-a1f519eb4fc2 - crawler-kv
   Service Identities:
      crawler (Datacenters: all)
archiver:
   ID:           a365fdc9-ac71-e754-0645-7ab6bd747301
   Description:  archiver role
   Service Identities:
      archiver (Datacenters: dc2)
```

Show Metadata.

```shell-session
$ consul acl role list -meta
web-crawler:
   ID:           57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9
   Description:  web crawler updated role
   Hash:         3bd7c15a77c8d1d45c515378f1176df2e6f76d9c96d541f96de8272ff4dba7b5
   Create Index: 18
   Modify Index: 39
   Policies:
      2f8f99c7-edd9-2f09-7e4b-a1f519eb4fc2 - crawler-kv
   Service Identities:
      crawler (Datacenters: all)
archiver:
   ID:           a365fdc9-ac71-e754-0645-7ab6bd747301
   Description:  archiver role
   Hash:         9af397ea92ee901366d6333c658195be16f4aee8aa64d2b529b921c879b70a58
   Create Index: 22
   Modify Index: 22
   Service Identities:
      archiver (Datacenters: dc2)
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/acl/role/list.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Role List'
description: |
  The `consul acl role list` command outputs details for all ACL roles, including the policy IDs attached to each role.
---

# Consul ACL Role List

Command: `consul acl role list`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/roles](/consul/api-docs/acl/roles#list-roles)

The `acl role list` command lists all roles. By default it will not show metadata.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:read`   |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl role list`

#### Command Options

- `-meta` - Indicates that role metadata such as the content hash and
  Raft indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Default listing.

```shell-session
$ consul acl role list
web-crawler:
   ID:           57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9
   Description:  web crawler updated role
   Policies:
      2f8f99c7-edd9-2f09-7e4b-a1f519eb4fc2 - crawler-kv
   Service Identities:
      crawler (Datacenters: all)
archiver:
   ID:           a365fdc9-ac71-e754-0645-7ab6bd747301
   Description:  archiver role
   Service Identities:
      archiver (Datacenters: dc2)
```

Show Metadata.

```shell-session
$ consul acl role list -meta
web-crawler:
   ID:           57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9
   Description:  web crawler updated role
   Hash:         3bd7c15a77c8d1d45c515378f1176df2e6f76d9c96d541f96de8272ff4dba7b5
   Create Index: 18
   Modify Index: 39
   Policies:
      2f8f99c7-edd9-2f09-7e4b-a1f519eb4fc2 - crawler-kv
   Service Identities:
      crawler (Datacenters: all)
archiver:
   ID:           a365fdc9-ac71-e754-0645-7ab6bd747301
   Description:  archiver role
   Hash:         9af397ea92ee901366d6333c658195be16f4aee8aa64d2b529b921c879b70a58
   Create Index: 22
   Modify Index: 22
   Service Identities:
      archiver (Datacenters: dc2)
```
