website/content/commands/acl/role/update.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Role Update'
---

# Consul ACL Role Update

Command: `consul acl role update`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/role/:id](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/roles#update-a-role)

The `acl role update` command is used to update a role. The default operations is to merge the
current role with those values provided to the command invocation. Therefore to
update just one field, only the `-id` or `-name` options and the option to
modify must be provided. Note that renaming roles requires both the `-id` and
`-name` as the new name cannot yet be used to lookup the role.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl role update [options] [args]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the role.

- `-id=<string>` - The ID of the role to update. It may be specified as a
  unique ID prefix but will error if the prefix matches multiple role IDs

- `-meta` - Indicates that role metadata such as the content hash and raft
  indices should be shown for each entry

- `-name=<string>` - The role name.

- `-node-identity=<value>` - Name of a node identity to use for this role. May
  be specified multiple times. Format is `NODENAME:DATACENTER`. Added in Consul
  1.8.1.

- `-no-merge` - Do not merge the current role information with what is provided
  to the command. Instead overwrite all fields with the exception of the role
  ID which is immutable.

- `-policy-id=<value>` - ID of a policy to use for this role. May be specified
  multiple times

- `-policy-name=<value>` - Name of a policy to use for this role. May be
  specified multiple times

- `-service-identity=<value>` - Name of a service identity to use for this
  role. May be specified multiple times. Format is the `SERVICENAME` or
  `SERVICENAME:DATACENTER1,DATACENTER2,...`

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Update a role:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role update -id 57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9 \
    -description 'web crawler updated role' -service-identity 'crawler'
Role updated successfully
ID:           57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9
Name:         crawler
Description:  web crawler updated role
Policies:
   2f8f99c7-edd9-2f09-7e4b-a1f519eb4fc2 - crawler-kv
Service Identities:
   crawler (Datacenters: all)
```

Rename a role by prefix:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role update -id 57147 -name web-crawler
Role updated successfully
ID:           57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9
Name:         web-crawler
Description:  web crawler updated role
Policies:
   2f8f99c7-edd9-2f09-7e4b-a1f519eb4fc2 - crawler-kv
Service Identities:
   crawler (Datacenters: all)
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/acl/role/update.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Role Update'
---

# Consul ACL Role Update

Command: `consul acl role update`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/role/:id](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/roles#update-a-role)

The `acl role update` command is used to update a role. The default operations is to merge the
current role with those values provided to the command invocation. Therefore to
update just one field, only the `-id` or `-name` options and the option to
modify must be provided. Note that renaming roles requires both the `-id` and
`-name` as the new name cannot yet be used to lookup the role.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl role update [options] [args]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the role.

- `-id=<string>` - The ID of the role to update. It may be specified as a
  unique ID prefix but will error if the prefix matches multiple role IDs

- `-meta` - Indicates that role metadata such as the content hash and raft
  indices should be shown for each entry

- `-name=<string>` - The role name.

- `-node-identity=<value>` - Name of a node identity to use for this role. May
  be specified multiple times. Format is `NODENAME:DATACENTER`. Added in Consul
  1.8.1.

- `-no-merge` - Do not merge the current role information with what is provided
  to the command. Instead overwrite all fields with the exception of the role
  ID which is immutable.

- `-policy-id=<value>` - ID of a policy to use for this role. May be specified
  multiple times

- `-policy-name=<value>` - Name of a policy to use for this role. May be
  specified multiple times

- `-service-identity=<value>` - Name of a service identity to use for this
  role. May be specified multiple times. Format is the `SERVICENAME` or
  `SERVICENAME:DATACENTER1,DATACENTER2,...`

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Update a role:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role update -id 57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9 \
    -description 'web crawler updated role' -service-identity 'crawler'
Role updated successfully
ID:           57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9
Name:         crawler
Description:  web crawler updated role
Policies:
   2f8f99c7-edd9-2f09-7e4b-a1f519eb4fc2 - crawler-kv
Service Identities:
   crawler (Datacenters: all)
```

Rename a role by prefix:

```shell-session
$ consul acl role update -id 57147 -name web-crawler
Role updated successfully
ID:           57147d87-6bf7-f794-1a6e-7d038c4e4ae9
Name:         web-crawler
Description:  web crawler updated role
Policies:
   2f8f99c7-edd9-2f09-7e4b-a1f519eb4fc2 - crawler-kv
Service Identities:
   crawler (Datacenters: all)
```
