website/content/docs/k8s/k8s-cli.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul K8s CLI Reference
description: >-
  Consul K8s CLI is a tool for quickly installing and interacting with Consul on Kubernetes.
---

# Consul K8s CLI Reference

Consul K8s CLI is a tool for quickly installing and interacting with Consul on Kubernetes.
This topic describes the commands, subcommands, and available options for using Consul K8s CLI.

~> Consul K8s CLI is is currently availabe as a beta release and is not recommended for production environments.

## Download and Build the Binary

1. Clone the [consul-k8s](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-k8s/tree/main/cli) project.
1. Navigate to the `consul-k8s/cli` directory and issue the following command to build the tool:

   ```shell-session
   go build -o bin/consul-k8s
   ```

1. (Optional) Move the binary to you `$PATH` for ease of use, e.g.:

   ```shell-session
   mv bin/consul-k8s /usr/local/bin/consul-k8s
   ```

1. (Optional) Issue the `consul-k8s version` command to verify the installation:

   ```shell-session
   consul-k8s version
   consul-k8s 0.35.0
   ```

## Usage

Consul K8s CLI uses the following syntax:

```shell-session
consul-k8s <SUBCOMMAND> <OPTIONS>
```

## Subcommands

You can use the following subcommands with `consul-k8s`.

### `install`

The `install` command installs Consul on Kubernetes.

```shell-session
consul-k8s install <OPTIONS>
```

The following options are available.

| Flag                                                                                                                                          | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Default                                 | Required |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `-auto-approve` &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; | Boolean value that enables you to skip the installation confirmation prompt.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | `false`                                 | Optional |
| `-dry-run`                                                                                                                                    | Boolean value that validates the installation and returns a summary.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | `false`                                 | Optional |
| `-config-file`                                                                                                                                | String value that specifies the path to a file containing custom installation configurations, e.g., Consul Helm chart values file. <br/> You can use the `-config-file` flag multiple times to specify multiple files.                                                                                                                                                                            | none                                    | Optional |
| `-namespace`                                                                                                                                  | String value that specifies the namespace of the Consul installation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | `consul`                                | Optional |
| `-preset`                                                                                                                                     | String value that installs Consul based on a preset configuration. You can specify the following values: <br/> `demo`: Installs a single replica server with sidecar injection enabled; useful for testing service mesh functionality. <br/> `secure`: Installs a single replica server with sidecar injection, ACLs, and TLS enabled; useful for testing service mesh functionality.             | Configuration of the Consul Helm chart. | Optional |
| `-set`                                                                                                                                        | String value that enables you to set a customizeable value. This flag is comparable to the `helm install --set` flag. <br/> You can use the `-set` flag multiple times to set multiple values. <br/> Consul Helm chart values are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                | none                                    | Optional |
| `-set-file`                                                                                                                                   | String value that specifies the name of an arbitrary config file. This flag is comparable to the `helm install --set-file` <br/> flag. The contents of the file will be used to set a customizeable value. You can use the `-set-file` flag multiple times to specify multiple files. <br/> Consul Helm chart values are supported.                                                                                                                                                | none                                    | Optional |
| `-set-string`                                                                                                                                 | String value that enables you to set a customizeable string value. This flag is comparable to the `helm install --set-string` <br/> flag. You can use the `-set-string` flag multiple times to specify multiple strings. <br/> Consul Helm chart values are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                             | none                                    | Optional |
| `-timeout`                                                                                                                                    | Specifies how long to wait for the installation process to complete before timing out. The value is specified with an integer and string value indicating a unit of time. <br/> The following units are supported: <br/> `ms` (milliseconds)<br/>`s` (seconds)<br/>`m` (minutes) <br/>In the following example, installation will timeout after one minute:<br/> `consul-k8s install -timeout 1m` | Optional                                | `10m`    |
| `-wait`                                                                                                                                       | Boolean value that determines if Consul should wait for resources in the installation to be ready before exiting the command.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Optional                                | `true`   |
| `-verbose`, `-v`                                                                                                                              | Boolean value that specifies whether to output verbose logs from the install command with the status of resources being installed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Optional                                | `false`  |
| `--help`                                                                                                                                      | Prints usage information for this option.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | none                                    | Optional |

See [Global Options](#global-options) for additional commands that you can use when installing Consul on Kubernetes.

#### Example Commands

The following example command installs Consul according in the `myNS` namespace according to the `secure` preset.

```shell-session
consul-k8s install -preset=secure -namespace=myNS
```

The following example commands install Consul on Kubernetes using custom values, files, or strings that are set via flags. The underlying Consul-on-Kubernetes Helm chart uses the flags to customize the installation. The flags are comparable to the `helm install` [flags](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/#helm-install).  

 ```shell-session
 consul-k8s install -set key=value
 consul-k8s install -set key1=value1 -set key2=value2
 consul-k8s install -set-file config1=value1.conf
 consul-k8s install -set-file config1=value1.conf -set-file config2=value2.conf
 consul-k8s install -set-string key=value-bool
 consul-k8s install -set key1=value1 -set key2=value2
 ```

### `uninstall`

The `uninstall` command removes Consul from Kubernetes.

```shell-session
consul-k8s uninstall <OPTIONS>
```

The following options are available.

| Flag                                                                                                                                          | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Default                                                                      | Required |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `-auto-approve` &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; | Boolean value that enables you to skip the removal confirmation prompt.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | `false`                                                                      | Optional |
| `-name`                                                                                                                                       | String value for the name of the installation to remove.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | none                                                                         | Optional |
| `-namespace`                                                                                                                                  | String value that specifies the namespace of the Consul installation to remove.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | `consul`                                                                     | Optional |
| `-timeout`                                                                                                                                    | Specifies how long to wait for the removal process to complete before timing out. The value is specified with an integer and string value indicating a unit of time. <br/> The following units are supported: <br/> `ms` (milliseconds)<br/>`s` (seconds)<br/>`m` (minutes) <br/>`h` (hours) <br/>In the following example, removal will timeout after one minute:<br/> `consul-k8s uninstall -timeout 1m` | Optional                                                                     | `10m`    |
| `-wipe-data`                                                                                                                                  | Boolan value that deletes PVCs and secrets associated with the Consul installation during installation. <br/> Data will be removed without a verification prompt if the `-auto-approve` flag is set to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                             | `false` <br/> Instructions for removing data will be printed to the console. | Optional |
| `--help`                                                                                                                                      | Prints usage information for this option.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | none                                                                         | Optional |

See [Global Options](#global-options) for additional commands that you can use when uninstalling Consul from Kubernetes.

#### Example Command

The following example command immediately uninstalls Consul from the `my-ns` namespace with the name `my-consul` and removes PVCs and secrets associated with the installation without asking for verification:

```shell-session
consul-k8s uninstall -namespace=my-ns -name=my-consul -wipe-data=true -auto-approve=true
```

## `version`

The `version` command prints the Consul version.

```shell-session
consul-k8s version
```

This command does not take any options.

You can also print the version with the `--version` flag.

```shell-session
consul-k8s --version
```

## Global Options

The following global options are available.

| Flag                                                                      | Description                                                                         | Default | Required |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `-context` &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; | String value that sets the Kubernetes context to use for Consul K8s CLI operations. | none    | Optional |
| `-kubeconfig` <br/> Alias: `-c`                                           | String value that specifies the path to the `kubeconfig` file. <br/>                | none    | Optional |

Commit message:

docs: add `brew install hashicorp/tap/consul-k8s` and re-order install and uninstall workflows  (#11489)
* docs: add `brew install hashicorp/tap/consul-k8s`

* add consul k8s cli brew install to reference

* Update k8s-cli.mdx

* split home-brew commands into two steps

* Update k8s-cli.mdx

* slight changes on recommended way of installing Consul K8s for CLI or multi-DC

* Update install.mdx

* reorder cli and helm uninstall

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/install.mdx

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/install.mdx

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/install.mdx

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/k8s-cli.mdx

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/install.mdx

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/k8s-cli.mdx

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/docs/k8s/k8s-cli.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul K8s CLI Reference
description: >-
  Consul K8s CLI is a tool for quickly installing and interacting with Consul on Kubernetes.
---

# Consul K8s CLI Reference

Consul K8s CLI is a tool for quickly installing and interacting with Consul on Kubernetes.
This topic describes the commands, subcommands, and available options for using Consul K8s CLI.

~> Consul K8s CLI is is currently availabe as a beta release and is not recommended for production environments.

## Install the Consul K8s CLI

The [Homebrew](https://brew.sh) package manager is required to complete the following installation instructions.

1. Install the HashiCorp `tap`, which is a repository of all Homebrew packages for HashiCorp:
    ```shell-session
    brew tap hashicorp/tap
    ```
    
1. Install the Consul K8s CLI with `hashicorp/tap/consul` formula. 
    ```shell-session
    brew install hashicorp/tap/consul-k8s
    ```

1. If you have already provisioned a Kubernetes cluster and have already configured access to the cluster via a `kubeconfig` file, you are ready to install Consul K8s. Issue the `install` subcommand to install Consul on Kubernetes:

    ```shell-session
    consul-k8s install <OPTIONS>
    ```

1. (Optional) Issue the `consul-k8s version` command to verify the installation:

   ```shell-session
   consul-k8s version
   consul-k8s 0.36.0
   ```

## Usage

Consul K8s CLI uses the following syntax:

```shell-session
consul-k8s <SUBCOMMAND> <OPTIONS>
```

## Subcommands

You can use the following subcommands with `consul-k8s`.

### `install`

The `install` command installs Consul on Kubernetes.

```shell-session
consul-k8s install <OPTIONS>
```

The following options are available.

| Flag                                                                                                                                          | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Default                                 | Required |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `-auto-approve` &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; | Boolean value that enables you to skip the installation confirmation prompt.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      | `false`                                 | Optional |
| `-dry-run`                                                                                                                                    | Boolean value that validates the installation and returns a summary.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | `false`                                 | Optional |
| `-config-file`                                                                                                                                | String value that specifies the path to a file containing custom installation configurations, e.g., Consul Helm chart values file. <br/> You can use the `-config-file` flag multiple times to specify multiple files.                                                                                                                                                                            | none                                    | Optional |
| `-namespace`                                                                                                                                  | String value that specifies the namespace of the Consul installation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | `consul`                                | Optional |
| `-preset`                                                                                                                                     | String value that installs Consul based on a preset configuration. You can specify the following values: <br/> `demo`: Installs a single replica server with sidecar injection enabled; useful for testing service mesh functionality. <br/> `secure`: Installs a single replica server with sidecar injection, ACLs, and TLS enabled; useful for testing service mesh functionality.             | Configuration of the Consul Helm chart. | Optional |
| `-set`                                                                                                                                        | String value that enables you to set a customizeable value. This flag is comparable to the `helm install --set` flag. <br/> You can use the `-set` flag multiple times to set multiple values. <br/> Consul Helm chart values are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                                                | none                                    | Optional |
| `-set-file`                                                                                                                                   | String value that specifies the name of an arbitrary config file. This flag is comparable to the `helm install --set-file` <br/> flag. The contents of the file will be used to set a customizeable value. You can use the `-set-file` flag multiple times to specify multiple files. <br/> Consul Helm chart values are supported.                                                                                                                                                | none                                    | Optional |
| `-set-string`                                                                                                                                 | String value that enables you to set a customizeable string value. This flag is comparable to the `helm install --set-string` <br/> flag. You can use the `-set-string` flag multiple times to specify multiple strings. <br/> Consul Helm chart values are supported.                                                                                                                                                                                             | none                                    | Optional |
| `-timeout`                                                                                                                                    | Specifies how long to wait for the installation process to complete before timing out. The value is specified with an integer and string value indicating a unit of time. <br/> The following units are supported: <br/> `ms` (milliseconds)<br/>`s` (seconds)<br/>`m` (minutes) <br/>In the following example, installation will timeout after one minute:<br/> `consul-k8s install -timeout 1m` | Optional                                | `10m`    |
| `-wait`                                                                                                                                       | Boolean value that determines if Consul should wait for resources in the installation to be ready before exiting the command.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Optional                                | `true`   |
| `-verbose`, `-v`                                                                                                                              | Boolean value that specifies whether to output verbose logs from the install command with the status of resources being installed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     | Optional                                | `false`  |
| `--help`                                                                                                                                      | Prints usage information for this option.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | none                                    | Optional |

See [Global Options](#global-options) for additional commands that you can use when installing Consul on Kubernetes.

#### Example Commands

The following example command installs Consul according in the `myNS` namespace according to the `secure` preset.

```shell-session
consul-k8s install -preset=secure -namespace=myNS
```

The following example commands install Consul on Kubernetes using custom values, files, or strings that are set via flags. The underlying Consul-on-Kubernetes Helm chart uses the flags to customize the installation. The flags are comparable to the `helm install` [flags](https://helm.sh/docs/helm/helm_install/#helm-install).  

 ```shell-session
 consul-k8s install -set key=value
 consul-k8s install -set key1=value1 -set key2=value2
 consul-k8s install -set-file config1=value1.conf
 consul-k8s install -set-file config1=value1.conf -set-file config2=value2.conf
 consul-k8s install -set-string key=value-bool
 consul-k8s install -set key1=value1 -set key2=value2
 ```

### `uninstall`

The `uninstall` command removes Consul from Kubernetes.

```shell-session
consul-k8s uninstall <OPTIONS>
```

The following options are available.

| Flag                                                                                                                                          | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Default                                                                      | Required |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `-auto-approve` &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; | Boolean value that enables you to skip the removal confirmation prompt.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    | `false`                                                                      | Optional |
| `-name`                                                                                                                                       | String value for the name of the installation to remove.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | none                                                                         | Optional |
| `-namespace`                                                                                                                                  | String value that specifies the namespace of the Consul installation to remove.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | `consul`                                                                     | Optional |
| `-timeout`                                                                                                                                    | Specifies how long to wait for the removal process to complete before timing out. The value is specified with an integer and string value indicating a unit of time. <br/> The following units are supported: <br/> `ms` (milliseconds)<br/>`s` (seconds)<br/>`m` (minutes) <br/>`h` (hours) <br/>In the following example, removal will timeout after one minute:<br/> `consul-k8s uninstall -timeout 1m` | Optional                                                                     | `10m`    |
| `-wipe-data`                                                                                                                                  | Boolan value that deletes PVCs and secrets associated with the Consul installation during installation. <br/> Data will be removed without a verification prompt if the `-auto-approve` flag is set to `true`.                                                                                                                                                                                             | `false` <br/> Instructions for removing data will be printed to the console. | Optional |
| `--help`                                                                                                                                      | Prints usage information for this option.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | none                                                                         | Optional |

See [Global Options](#global-options) for additional commands that you can use when uninstalling Consul from Kubernetes.

#### Example Command

The following example command immediately uninstalls Consul from the `my-ns` namespace with the name `my-consul` and removes PVCs and secrets associated with the installation without asking for verification:

```shell-session
consul-k8s uninstall -namespace=my-ns -name=my-consul -wipe-data=true -auto-approve=true
```

## `version`

The `version` command prints the Consul version.

```shell-session
consul-k8s version
```

This command does not take any options.

You can also print the version with the `--version` flag.

```shell-session
consul-k8s --version
```

## Global Options

The following global options are available.

| Flag                                                                      | Description                                                                         | Default | Required |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | -------- |
| `-context` &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; | String value that sets the Kubernetes context to use for Consul K8s CLI operations. | none    | Optional |
| `-kubeconfig` <br/> Alias: `-c`                                           | String value that specifies the path to the `kubeconfig` file. <br/>                | none    | Optional |
