website/content/docs/k8s/service-sync.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Service Sync - Kubernetes
description: >-
  The services in Kubernetes and Consul can be automatically synced so that
  Kubernetes services are available to Consul agents and services in Consul can
  be available as first-class Kubernetes services.
---

# Syncing Kubernetes and Consul Services

The services in Kubernetes and Consul can be automatically synced so that Kubernetes
services are available to Consul agents and services in Consul can be available
as first-class Kubernetes services. This functionality is provided by the
[consul-k8s project](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-k8s) and can be
automatically installed and configured using the
[Consul Helm chart](/docs/k8s/installation/install).

![screenshot of a Kubernetes service in the UI](/img/k8s-service.png)

**Why sync Kubernetes services to Consul?** Kubernetes services synced to the
Consul catalog enable Kubernetes services to be accessed by any node that
is part of the Consul cluster, including other distinct Kubernetes clusters.
For non-Kubernetes nodes, they can access services using the standard
[Consul DNS](/docs/discovery/dns) or HTTP API.

**Why sync Consul services to Kubernetes?** Syncing Consul services to
Kubernetes services enables non-Kubernetes services (such as external to
the cluster) to be accessed in a native Kubernetes way: using kube-dns,
environment variables, etc. This makes it very easy to automate external
service discovery, including hosted services like databases.

## Installation and Configuration

The service sync is done using an external long-running process in the
[consul-k8s project](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-k8s). This process
can run either in or out of a Kubernetes cluster. However, running this within
the Kubernetes cluster is generally easier since it is automated using the
[Helm chart](/docs/k8s/helm).

The Consul server cluster can run either in or out of a Kubernetes cluster.
The Consul server cluster does not need to be running on the same machine
or same platform as the sync process. The sync process needs to be configured
with the address to a Consul agent as well as any additional access
information such as ACL tokens.

To install the sync process, enable the catalog sync feature using
[Helm values](/docs/k8s/helm#configuration-values) and
upgrade the installation using `helm upgrade` for existing installs or
`helm install` for a fresh install.

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
```

This will enable services to sync _in both directions_. You can also choose
to only sync Kubernetes services to Consul or vice versa by disabling a direction.

To only enable syncing Consul services to Kubernetes use the config:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  toConsul: false
  toK8S: true
```

To only enable syncing Kubernetes services to Consul use:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  toConsul: true
  toK8S: false
```

See the [Helm configuration](/docs/k8s/helm#v-synccatalog)
for more information.

### Authentication

The sync process must authenticate to both Kubernetes and Consul to read
and write services.

If running `consul-k8s` using the Helm chart then this authentication is handled for you.

If running `consul-k8s` outside of Kubernetes, a valid kubeconfig file must be provided with cluster
and authentication information. The sync process will look into the default locations
for both in-cluster and out-of-cluster authentication. If `kubectl` works,
then the sync program should work.

For Consul, if ACLs are configured on the cluster, a Consul
[ACL token](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/access-control-setup-production)
will need to be provided. Review the [ACL rules](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules)
when creating this token so that it only allows the necessary privileges. The catalog
sync process accepts this token by using the [`CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN`](/commands#consul_http_token)
environment variable. This token should be set as a
[Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#creating-your-own-secrets)
and referenced in the Helm chart.

## Kubernetes to Consul

This sync registers Kubernetes services to the Consul catalog automatically.

This enables discovery and connection to Kubernetes services using native
Consul service discovery such as DNS or HTTP. This is particularly useful for
non-Kubernetes nodes. This also causes all discoverable services to be part of
a central service catalog in Consul for further syncing into alternate
Kubernetes clusters or other platforms.

Each synced service will be registered onto a Consul node called `k8s-sync`. This
is not a real node because there is no Consul client registering and monitoring
the services. Instead, the catalog sync process is monitoring Kubernetes
and syncing the services to Consul.

### Kubernetes Service Types

Not all Kubernetes services are externally accessible. The sync program by
default will only sync services of the following types or configurations.
If a service type is not listed below, then the sync program will ignore that
service type.

#### NodePort

[NodePort services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#nodeport)
register a static port that every node in the K8S cluster listens on.

For NodePort services, a Consul service instance will be created for each
node that has the representative pod running. While Kubernetes configures
a static port on all nodes in the cluster, this limits the number of service
instances to be equal to the nodes running the target pods.
By default it will use the external IP of the node but this can be configured via
the [`nodePortSyncType` helm option](/docs/k8s/helm#v-synccatalog-nodeportsynctype).

The service instance's port will be set to the _first_ defined node port of the service unless
set specifically via the `consul.hashicorp.com/service-port` annotation (see [Service Ports](/docs/k8s/service-sync#service-ports)).

#### LoadBalancer

For LoadBalancer services, a single service instance will be registered with
the external IP of the created load balancer. Because this is already a load
balancer, only one service instance will be registered with Consul rather
than registering each individual pod endpoint.

The service instance's port will be set to the _first_ defined port of the
service unless set specifically via the `consul.hashicorp.com/service-port` annotation (see [Service Ports](/docs/k8s/service-sync#service-ports)).

#### External IPs

Any service type may specify an
"[external IP](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#external-ips)"
configuration. The external IP must be configured by some other system, but
any service discovery will resolve to this set of IP addresses rather than a
virtual IP.

If an external IP list is present, a service instance in Consul will be created
for each external IP. It is assumed that if an external IP is present that it
is routable and configured by some other system.

The service instance's port will be set to the _first_ defined port of the
service unless set specifically via the `consul.hashicorp.com/service-port` annotation (see [Service Ports](/docs/k8s/service-sync#service-ports)).

#### ClusterIP

ClusterIP services are synced by default as of `consul-k8s` version 0.3.0.
Each pod that is an endpoint for the service will be synced as a Consul service
instance with its IP set to the pod IP and its port set to the `targetPort`.

The service instance's port can be overridden via the `consul.hashicorp.com/service-port` annotation (see [Service Ports](/docs/k8s/service-sync#service-ports)).

-> In Kubernetes clusters where pod IPs are not accessible outside the cluster,
the services registered in Consul may not be routable. To
skip syncing ClusterIP services, set [`syncClusterIPServices`](/docs/k8s/helm#v-synccatalog-syncclusteripservices)
to `false` in the Helm chart values file.

### Sync Enable/Disable

By default, all valid service types (as explained above) are synced from every Kubernetes
namespace (except for `kube-system` and `kube-public`).
If you wish to only sync specific services via annotation, set the default to `false`:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  default: false
```

And explicitly enable syncing specific services via the `consul.hashicorp.com/service-sync` annotation:

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/service-sync': 'true'
```

-> **NOTE:** If the annotation is set to `false` when the default sync is `true`, the service will **not** be synced.

You can allow or deny syncing from specific Kubernetes namespaces by setting the
`k8sAllowNamespaces` and `k8sDenyNamespaces` keys:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  default: true
  k8sAllowNamespaces: ['*']
  k8sDenyNamespaces: ['kube-system', 'kube-public']
```

In the default configuration (shown above), services from all namespaces except for
`kube-system` and `kube-public` will be synced.

If you wish to only sync from specific namespaces, you can list only those
namespaces in the `k8sAllowNamespaces` key:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  default: true
  k8sAllowNamespaces: ['my-ns-1', 'my-ns-2']
  k8sDenyNamespaces: []
```

If you wish to sync from every namespace _except_ specific namespaces, you can
use `*` in the allow list and then specify the non-syncing namespaces in the deny list:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  default: true
  k8sAllowNamespaces: ['*']
  k8sDenyNamespaces: ['no-sync-ns-1', 'no-sync-ns-2']
```

-> **NOTE:** The deny list takes precedence over the allow list. If a namespace
is listed in both lists, it will **not** be synced.

### Service Name

When a Kubernetes service is synced to Consul, the name of the service in Consul
by default will be the value of the "name" metadata on that Kubernetes service.
This makes it so that service sync works with zero configuration changes.
This can be overridden using an annotation to specify the Consul service name:

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/service-name': my-consul-service
```

**If a conflicting service name exists in Consul,** the sync program will
register additional instances to that same service. Therefore, services inside
and outside of Kubernetes should have different names unless you want either
side to potentially connect. This default behavior also enables gracefully
transitioning a service from outside of K8S to inside, and vice versa.

### Service Ports

When syncing the Kubernetes service to Consul, the Consul service port will be
the first defined port in the service. Additionally, all ports will be
registered in the service instance metadata with the key "port-X" where X is
the name of the port and the value is the externally accessible port.

The default service port can be overridden using an annotation:

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/service-port': 'http'
```

The annotation value may be a name of a port (recommended) or an exact port value.

### Service Tags

A service registered in Consul from Kubernetes will always have the tag "k8s" added
to it. Additional tags can be specified with a comma-separated annotation value
as shown below. This will also automatically include the "k8s" tag which can't
be disabled. The values should be specified comma-separated without any
additional whitespace.

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/service-tags': 'primary,foo'
```

### Service Meta

A service registered in Consul from Kubernetes will set the `external-source` key to
"kubernetes". This can be used by API consumers, the UI, CLI, etc. to filter
service instances that are set in k8s. The Consul UI (in Consul 1.2.3 and later)
will read this value to show a Kubernetes icon next to all externally
registered services from Kubernetes.

Additional metadata can be specified using annotations. The "KEY" below can be
set to any key. This allows setting multiple meta values:

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/service-meta-KEY': 'value'
```

### Consul Enterprise Namespaces

Consul Enterprise supports Consul namespaces. These can be used when syncing
from Kubernetes to Consul (although not vice-versa).

There are three options available:

1.  **Single Destination Namespace** – Sync all Kubernetes services, regardless of namespace,
    into the same Consul namespace.

    This can be configured with:

    ```yaml
    global:
      enableConsulNamespaces: true

    syncCatalog:
      enabled: true
      consulNamespaces:
        consulDestinationNamespace: 'my-consul-ns'
    ```

1.  **Mirror Namespaces** - Each Kubernetes service will be synced to a Consul namespace with the same
    name as its Kubernetes namespace.

    For example, service `foo` in Kubernetes namespace `ns-1` will be synced to the Consul namespace `ns-1`.
    If a mirrored namespace does not exist in Consul, it will be created.

    This can be configured with:

    ```yaml
    global:
      enableConsulNamespaces: true

    syncCatalog:
      enabled: true
      consulNamespaces:
        mirroringK8S: true

    addK8SNamespaceSuffix: false
    ```

1.  **Mirror Namespaces With Prefix** - Each Kubernetes service will be synced to a Consul namespace
    with the same name as its Kubernetes namespace **with a prefix**. For example, given a prefix
    `k8s-`, service `foo` in Kubernetes namespace `ns-1` will be synced to the Consul namespace
    `k8s-ns-1`.

    This can be configured with:

    ```yaml
    global:
      enableConsulNamespaces: true

    syncCatalog:
      enabled: true
      consulNamespaces:
        mirroringK8S: true
        mirroringK8SPrefix: 'k8s-'

    addK8SNamespaceSuffix: false
    ```

-> Note that in both mirroring examples we're setting `addK8SNamespaceSuffix: false`. If set to `true`
(the default), the Kubernetes namespace will be added as a suffix to each
Consul service name. For example Kubernetes service `foo` in namespace `k8s-ns`
would be registered into Consul with the name `foo-k8s-ns`.
This is useful when syncing from multiple Kubernetes namespaces to
a single consul namespace but is likely something you'll want turned off
when mirroring namespaces since services won't overlap with services from
other namespaces.

## Consul to Kubernetes

This syncs Consul services into first-class Kubernetes services.
The sync service will create an [`ExternalName`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#externalname)
`Service` for each Consul service. The "external name" will be
the Consul DNS name.

For example, given a Consul service `foo`, a Kubernetes Service will be created
as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: foo
  ...
spec:
  externalName: foo.service.consul
  type: ExternalName
```

With Consul To Kubernetes syncing enabled, DNS requests of the form `<consul-service-name>`
will be serviced by Consul DNS. From a different Kubernetes namespace than where Consul
is deployed, the DNS request would need to be `<consul-service-name>.<consul-namespace>`.

-> **Note:** Consul to Kubernetes syncing **isn't required** if you've enabled [Consul DNS on Kubernetes](/docs/k8s/dns)
_and_ all you need to do is address services in the form `<consul-service-name>.service.consul`, i.e. you don't need Kubernetes `Service` objects created.

~> **Requires Consul DNS via CoreDNS in Kubernetes:** This feature requires that
[Consul DNS](/docs/k8s/dns) is configured within Kubernetes.
Additionally, **[CoreDNS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/dns-custom-nameservers/#config-coredns)
is required (instead of kube-dns)** to resolve an
issue with resolving `externalName` services pointing to custom domains.

### Sync Enable/Disable

All Consul services visible to the sync process based on its given ACL token
will be synced to Kubernetes.

There is no way to change this behavior per service. For the opposite sync
direction (Kubernetes to Consul), you can use Kubernetes annotations to disable
a sync per service. This is not currently possible for Consul to Kubernetes
sync and the ACL token must be used to limit what services are synced.

In the future, we hope to support per-service configuration.

### Service Name

When a Consul service is synced to Kubernetes, the name of the Kubernetes
service will exactly match the name of the Consul service.

To change this default exact match behavior, it is possible to specify a
prefix to be added to service names within Kubernetes by using the
`-k8s-service-prefix` flag. This can also be specified in the Helm
configuration.

**If a conflicting service is found,** the service will not be synced. This
does not match the Kubernetes to Consul behavior, but given the current
implementation we must do this because Kubernetes can't mix both CNAME and
Endpoint-based services.

### Kubernetes Service Labels and Annotations

Any Consul services synced to Kubernetes will be labeled and annotated.
An annotation `consul.hashicorp.com/synced` will be set to "true" to note
that this is a synced service from Consul.

Additionally, a label `consul=true` will be specified so that label selectors
can be used with `kubectl` and other tooling to easily filter all Consul-synced
services.

Commit message:

docs: Service Sync clarify requirements when using Service Mesh (#12177)
* docs: Service Sync clarify requirements when using Service Mesh

* replace with relative link

website/content/docs/k8s/service-sync.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Service Sync - Kubernetes
description: >-
  The services in Kubernetes and Consul can be automatically synced so that
  Kubernetes services are available to Consul agents and services in Consul can
  be available as first-class Kubernetes services.
---

# Syncing Kubernetes and Consul Services

The services in Kubernetes and Consul can be automatically synced so that Kubernetes
services are available to Consul agents and services in Consul can be available
as first-class Kubernetes services. This functionality is provided by the
[consul-k8s project](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-k8s) and can be
automatically installed and configured using the
[Consul Helm chart](/docs/k8s/installation/install).

![screenshot of a Kubernetes service in the UI](/img/k8s-service.png)

**Why sync Kubernetes services to Consul?** Kubernetes services synced to the
Consul catalog enable Kubernetes services to be accessed by any node that
is part of the Consul cluster, including other distinct Kubernetes clusters.
For non-Kubernetes nodes, they can access services using the standard
[Consul DNS](/docs/discovery/dns) or HTTP API.

**Why sync Consul services to Kubernetes?** Syncing Consul services to
Kubernetes services enables non-Kubernetes services (such as external to
the cluster) to be accessed in a native Kubernetes way: using kube-dns,
environment variables, etc. This makes it very easy to automate external
service discovery, including hosted services like databases.

## Installation and Configuration

~> Enabling both Service Mesh and Service Sync on the same Kubernetes services is not supported, as Service Mesh also registers Kubernetes service instances to Consul. Please ensure that Service Sync is only enabled for namespaces and services that are not injected with the Consul sidecar for Service Mesh as described in [Sync Enable/Disable](/docs/k8s/service-sync#sync-enable-disable).

The service sync is done using an external long-running process in the
[consul-k8s project](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-k8s). This process
can run either in or out of a Kubernetes cluster. However, running this within
the Kubernetes cluster is generally easier since it is automated using the
[Helm chart](/docs/k8s/helm).

The Consul server cluster can run either in or out of a Kubernetes cluster.
The Consul server cluster does not need to be running on the same machine
or same platform as the sync process. The sync process needs to be configured
with the address to a Consul agent as well as any additional access
information such as ACL tokens.

To install the sync process, enable the catalog sync feature using
[Helm values](/docs/k8s/helm#configuration-values) and
upgrade the installation using `helm upgrade` for existing installs or
`helm install` for a fresh install.

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
```

This will enable services to sync _in both directions_. You can also choose
to only sync Kubernetes services to Consul or vice versa by disabling a direction.

To only enable syncing Consul services to Kubernetes use the config:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  toConsul: false
  toK8S: true
```

To only enable syncing Kubernetes services to Consul use:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  toConsul: true
  toK8S: false
```

See the [Helm configuration](/docs/k8s/helm#v-synccatalog)
for more information.

### Authentication

The sync process must authenticate to both Kubernetes and Consul to read
and write services.

If running `consul-k8s` using the Helm chart then this authentication is handled for you.

If running `consul-k8s` outside of Kubernetes, a valid kubeconfig file must be provided with cluster
and authentication information. The sync process will look into the default locations
for both in-cluster and out-of-cluster authentication. If `kubectl` works,
then the sync program should work.

For Consul, if ACLs are configured on the cluster, a Consul
[ACL token](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/consul/access-control-setup-production)
will need to be provided. Review the [ACL rules](/docs/security/acl/acl-rules)
when creating this token so that it only allows the necessary privileges. The catalog
sync process accepts this token by using the [`CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN`](/commands#consul_http_token)
environment variable. This token should be set as a
[Kubernetes secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/secret/#creating-your-own-secrets)
and referenced in the Helm chart.

## Kubernetes to Consul

This sync registers Kubernetes services to the Consul catalog automatically.

This enables discovery and connection to Kubernetes services using native
Consul service discovery such as DNS or HTTP. This is particularly useful for
non-Kubernetes nodes. This also causes all discoverable services to be part of
a central service catalog in Consul for further syncing into alternate
Kubernetes clusters or other platforms.

Each synced service will be registered onto a Consul node called `k8s-sync`. This
is not a real node because there is no Consul client registering and monitoring
the services. Instead, the catalog sync process is monitoring Kubernetes
and syncing the services to Consul.

### Kubernetes Service Types

Not all Kubernetes services are externally accessible. The sync program by
default will only sync services of the following types or configurations.
If a service type is not listed below, then the sync program will ignore that
service type.

#### NodePort

[NodePort services](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#nodeport)
register a static port that every node in the K8S cluster listens on.

For NodePort services, a Consul service instance will be created for each
node that has the representative pod running. While Kubernetes configures
a static port on all nodes in the cluster, this limits the number of service
instances to be equal to the nodes running the target pods.
By default it will use the external IP of the node but this can be configured via
the [`nodePortSyncType` helm option](/docs/k8s/helm#v-synccatalog-nodeportsynctype).

The service instance's port will be set to the _first_ defined node port of the service unless
set specifically via the `consul.hashicorp.com/service-port` annotation (see [Service Ports](/docs/k8s/service-sync#service-ports)).

#### LoadBalancer

For LoadBalancer services, a single service instance will be registered with
the external IP of the created load balancer. Because this is already a load
balancer, only one service instance will be registered with Consul rather
than registering each individual pod endpoint.

The service instance's port will be set to the _first_ defined port of the
service unless set specifically via the `consul.hashicorp.com/service-port` annotation (see [Service Ports](/docs/k8s/service-sync#service-ports)).

#### External IPs

Any service type may specify an
"[external IP](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#external-ips)"
configuration. The external IP must be configured by some other system, but
any service discovery will resolve to this set of IP addresses rather than a
virtual IP.

If an external IP list is present, a service instance in Consul will be created
for each external IP. It is assumed that if an external IP is present that it
is routable and configured by some other system.

The service instance's port will be set to the _first_ defined port of the
service unless set specifically via the `consul.hashicorp.com/service-port` annotation (see [Service Ports](/docs/k8s/service-sync#service-ports)).

#### ClusterIP

ClusterIP services are synced by default as of `consul-k8s` version 0.3.0.
Each pod that is an endpoint for the service will be synced as a Consul service
instance with its IP set to the pod IP and its port set to the `targetPort`.

The service instance's port can be overridden via the `consul.hashicorp.com/service-port` annotation (see [Service Ports](/docs/k8s/service-sync#service-ports)).

-> In Kubernetes clusters where pod IPs are not accessible outside the cluster,
the services registered in Consul may not be routable. To
skip syncing ClusterIP services, set [`syncClusterIPServices`](/docs/k8s/helm#v-synccatalog-syncclusteripservices)
to `false` in the Helm chart values file.

### Sync Enable/Disable

By default, all valid service types (as explained above) are synced from every Kubernetes
namespace (except for `kube-system` and `kube-public`).
If you wish to only sync specific services via annotation, set the default to `false`:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  default: false
```

And explicitly enable syncing specific services via the `consul.hashicorp.com/service-sync` annotation:

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/service-sync': 'true'
```

-> **NOTE:** If the annotation is set to `false` when the default sync is `true`, the service will **not** be synced.

You can allow or deny syncing from specific Kubernetes namespaces by setting the
`k8sAllowNamespaces` and `k8sDenyNamespaces` keys:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  default: true
  k8sAllowNamespaces: ['*']
  k8sDenyNamespaces: ['kube-system', 'kube-public']
```

In the default configuration (shown above), services from all namespaces except for
`kube-system` and `kube-public` will be synced.

If you wish to only sync from specific namespaces, you can list only those
namespaces in the `k8sAllowNamespaces` key:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  default: true
  k8sAllowNamespaces: ['my-ns-1', 'my-ns-2']
  k8sDenyNamespaces: []
```

If you wish to sync from every namespace _except_ specific namespaces, you can
use `*` in the allow list and then specify the non-syncing namespaces in the deny list:

```yaml
syncCatalog:
  enabled: true
  default: true
  k8sAllowNamespaces: ['*']
  k8sDenyNamespaces: ['no-sync-ns-1', 'no-sync-ns-2']
```

-> **NOTE:** The deny list takes precedence over the allow list. If a namespace
is listed in both lists, it will **not** be synced.

### Service Name

When a Kubernetes service is synced to Consul, the name of the service in Consul
by default will be the value of the "name" metadata on that Kubernetes service.
This makes it so that service sync works with zero configuration changes.
This can be overridden using an annotation to specify the Consul service name:

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/service-name': my-consul-service
```

**If a conflicting service name exists in Consul,** the sync program will
register additional instances to that same service. Therefore, services inside
and outside of Kubernetes should have different names unless you want either
side to potentially connect. This default behavior also enables gracefully
transitioning a service from outside of K8S to inside, and vice versa.

### Service Ports

When syncing the Kubernetes service to Consul, the Consul service port will be
the first defined port in the service. Additionally, all ports will be
registered in the service instance metadata with the key "port-X" where X is
the name of the port and the value is the externally accessible port.

The default service port can be overridden using an annotation:

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/service-port': 'http'
```

The annotation value may be a name of a port (recommended) or an exact port value.

### Service Tags

A service registered in Consul from Kubernetes will always have the tag "k8s" added
to it. Additional tags can be specified with a comma-separated annotation value
as shown below. This will also automatically include the "k8s" tag which can't
be disabled. The values should be specified comma-separated without any
additional whitespace.

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/service-tags': 'primary,foo'
```

### Service Meta

A service registered in Consul from Kubernetes will set the `external-source` key to
"kubernetes". This can be used by API consumers, the UI, CLI, etc. to filter
service instances that are set in k8s. The Consul UI (in Consul 1.2.3 and later)
will read this value to show a Kubernetes icon next to all externally
registered services from Kubernetes.

Additional metadata can be specified using annotations. The "KEY" below can be
set to any key. This allows setting multiple meta values:

```yaml
kind: Service
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: my-service
  annotations:
    'consul.hashicorp.com/service-meta-KEY': 'value'
```

### Consul Enterprise Namespaces

Consul Enterprise supports Consul namespaces. These can be used when syncing
from Kubernetes to Consul (although not vice-versa).

There are three options available:

1.  **Single Destination Namespace** – Sync all Kubernetes services, regardless of namespace,
    into the same Consul namespace.

    This can be configured with:

    ```yaml
    global:
      enableConsulNamespaces: true

    syncCatalog:
      enabled: true
      consulNamespaces:
        consulDestinationNamespace: 'my-consul-ns'
    ```

1.  **Mirror Namespaces** - Each Kubernetes service will be synced to a Consul namespace with the same
    name as its Kubernetes namespace.

    For example, service `foo` in Kubernetes namespace `ns-1` will be synced to the Consul namespace `ns-1`.
    If a mirrored namespace does not exist in Consul, it will be created.

    This can be configured with:

    ```yaml
    global:
      enableConsulNamespaces: true

    syncCatalog:
      enabled: true
      consulNamespaces:
        mirroringK8S: true

    addK8SNamespaceSuffix: false
    ```

1.  **Mirror Namespaces With Prefix** - Each Kubernetes service will be synced to a Consul namespace
    with the same name as its Kubernetes namespace **with a prefix**. For example, given a prefix
    `k8s-`, service `foo` in Kubernetes namespace `ns-1` will be synced to the Consul namespace
    `k8s-ns-1`.

    This can be configured with:

    ```yaml
    global:
      enableConsulNamespaces: true

    syncCatalog:
      enabled: true
      consulNamespaces:
        mirroringK8S: true
        mirroringK8SPrefix: 'k8s-'

    addK8SNamespaceSuffix: false
    ```

-> Note that in both mirroring examples we're setting `addK8SNamespaceSuffix: false`. If set to `true`
(the default), the Kubernetes namespace will be added as a suffix to each
Consul service name. For example Kubernetes service `foo` in namespace `k8s-ns`
would be registered into Consul with the name `foo-k8s-ns`.
This is useful when syncing from multiple Kubernetes namespaces to
a single consul namespace but is likely something you'll want turned off
when mirroring namespaces since services won't overlap with services from
other namespaces.

## Consul to Kubernetes

This syncs Consul services into first-class Kubernetes services.
The sync service will create an [`ExternalName`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#externalname)
`Service` for each Consul service. The "external name" will be
the Consul DNS name.

For example, given a Consul service `foo`, a Kubernetes Service will be created
as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: foo
  ...
spec:
  externalName: foo.service.consul
  type: ExternalName
```

With Consul To Kubernetes syncing enabled, DNS requests of the form `<consul-service-name>`
will be serviced by Consul DNS. From a different Kubernetes namespace than where Consul
is deployed, the DNS request would need to be `<consul-service-name>.<consul-namespace>`.

-> **Note:** Consul to Kubernetes syncing **isn't required** if you've enabled [Consul DNS on Kubernetes](/docs/k8s/dns)
_and_ all you need to do is address services in the form `<consul-service-name>.service.consul`, i.e. you don't need Kubernetes `Service` objects created.

~> **Requires Consul DNS via CoreDNS in Kubernetes:** This feature requires that
[Consul DNS](/docs/k8s/dns) is configured within Kubernetes.
Additionally, **[CoreDNS](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/dns-custom-nameservers/#config-coredns)
is required (instead of kube-dns)** to resolve an
issue with resolving `externalName` services pointing to custom domains.

### Sync Enable/Disable

All Consul services visible to the sync process based on its given ACL token
will be synced to Kubernetes.

There is no way to change this behavior per service. For the opposite sync
direction (Kubernetes to Consul), you can use Kubernetes annotations to disable
a sync per service. This is not currently possible for Consul to Kubernetes
sync and the ACL token must be used to limit what services are synced.

In the future, we hope to support per-service configuration.

### Service Name

When a Consul service is synced to Kubernetes, the name of the Kubernetes
service will exactly match the name of the Consul service.

To change this default exact match behavior, it is possible to specify a
prefix to be added to service names within Kubernetes by using the
`-k8s-service-prefix` flag. This can also be specified in the Helm
configuration.

**If a conflicting service is found,** the service will not be synced. This
does not match the Kubernetes to Consul behavior, but given the current
implementation we must do this because Kubernetes can't mix both CNAME and
Endpoint-based services.

### Kubernetes Service Labels and Annotations

Any Consul services synced to Kubernetes will be labeled and annotated.
An annotation `consul.hashicorp.com/synced` will be set to "true" to note
that this is a synced service from Consul.

Additionally, a label `consul=true` will be specified so that label selectors
can be used with `kubectl` and other tooling to easily filter all Consul-synced
services.
