website/content/api-docs/connect/ca.mdx, before:

---
layout: api
page_title: Certificate Authority - Connect - HTTP API
description: |-
  The /connect/ca endpoints provide tools for interacting with Connect's
  Certificate Authority mechanism via Consul's HTTP API.
---

# Certificate Authority (CA) - Connect HTTP API

The `/connect/ca` endpoints provide tools for interacting with Connect's
Certificate Authority mechanism.

## List CA Root Certificates

This endpoint returns the current list of trusted CA root certificates in
the cluster.

| Method | Path                | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/connect/ca/roots` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs/api-structure#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| `YES`            | `all`             | `none`        | `none`       |

### Query Parameters

- `pem` `(boolean: false)` - Specifies that the return body should be a PEM encoded
  certificate chain suitable for use by applications needing to trust Connect CA
  signed certificates. The Content-Type will be set to `application/pem-certificate-chain`
  to indicate the format of the response.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/connect/ca/roots
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "ActiveRootID": "c7:bd:55:4b:64:80:14:51:10:a4:b9:b9:d7:e0:75:3f:86:ba:bb:24",
  "TrustDomain": "7f42f496-fbc7-8692-05ed-334aa5340c1e.consul",
  "Roots": [
    {
      "ID": "c7:bd:55:4b:64:80:14:51:10:a4:b9:b9:d7:e0:75:3f:86:ba:bb:24",
      "Name": "Consul CA Root Cert",
      "SerialNumber": 7,
      "SigningKeyID": "2d:09:5d:84:b9:89:4b:dd:e3:88:bb:9c:e2:b2:69:81:1f:4b:a6:fd:4d:df:ee:74:63:f3:74:55:ca:b0:b5:65",
      "ExternalTrustDomain": "a1499528-fbf6-df7b-05e5-ae81e1873fc4",
      "NotBefore": "2018-05-25T21:39:23Z",
      "NotAfter": "2028-05-22T21:39:23Z",
      "RootCert": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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\nJ6lvm3HzEQw2AiEA4PVqWt+z8fsQht0cACM42kghL97SgDSf8rgCqfLYMng=\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n",
      "IntermediateCerts": null,
      "Active": true,
      "PrivateKeyType": "ec",
      "PrivateKeyBits": 256,
      "CreateIndex": 8,
      "ModifyIndex": 8
    }
  ]
}
```

### Sample PEM Encoded Response

```
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

## Get CA Configuration

This endpoint returns the current CA configuration.

| Method | Path                        | Produces           |
| ------ | --------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/connect/ca/configuration` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs/api-structure#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required                  |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `YES`            | `all`             | `none`        | `operator:write` <sup>1</sup> |

<sup>1</sup> ACL required was <code>operator:read</code> prior to versions 1.8.6,
1.7.10, and 1.6.10.

The corresponding CLI command is [`consul connect ca get-config`](/commands/connect/ca#get-config).

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/connect/ca/configuration
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "Provider": "consul",
  "Config": {
    "LeafCertTTL": "72h",
    "IntermediateCertTTL": "8760h"
  },
  "CreateIndex": 5,
  "ModifyIndex": 5
}
```

## Update CA Configuration

This endpoint updates the configuration for the CA. If this results in a
new root certificate being used, the [Root Rotation](/docs/connect/ca#root-certificate-rotation) process will be triggered.

| Method | Path                        | Produces           |
| ------ | --------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `PUT`  | `/connect/ca/configuration` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs/api-structure#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required     |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `operator:write` |

The corresponding CLI command is [`consul connect ca set-config`](/commands/connect/ca#set-config).

### JSON Request Body Schema

- `Provider` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the CA provider type to use.

- `Config` `(map[string]string: <required>)` - The raw configuration to use
  for the chosen provider. For more information on configuring the Connect CA
  providers, see [Provider Config](/docs/connect/ca).

- `ForceWithoutCrossSigning` `(bool: <optional>)` - Indicates that the CA change
  should be forced to complete even if the current CA doesn't support cross
  signing. Changing root without cross-signing may cause temporary connection
  failures until the rollout completes. See [Forced Rotation Without
  Cross-Signing](/docs/connect/ca#forced-rotation-without-cross-signing)
  for more detail.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "Provider": "consul",
  "Config": {
    "LeafCertTTL": "72h",
    "PrivateKey": "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----...",
    "RootCert": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----...",
    "IntermediateCertTTL": "8760h"
  },
  "ForceWithoutCrossSigning": false
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request PUT \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/connect/ca/configuration
```

Commit message:

docs: clarify Vault CA provider permissions needed (#15478)

website/content/api-docs/connect/ca.mdx, after:

---
layout: api
page_title: Certificate Authority - Connect - HTTP API
description: |-
  The /connect/ca endpoints provide tools for interacting with Connect's
  Certificate Authority mechanism via Consul's HTTP API.
---

# Certificate Authority (CA) - Connect HTTP API

The `/connect/ca` endpoints provide tools for interacting with Connect's
Certificate Authority mechanism.

## List CA Root Certificates

This endpoint returns the current list of trusted CA root certificates in
the cluster.

| Method | Path                | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/connect/ca/roots` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs/api-structure#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| `YES`            | `all`             | `none`        | `none`       |

### Query Parameters

- `pem` `(boolean: false)` - Specifies that the return body should be a PEM encoded
  certificate chain suitable for use by applications needing to trust Connect CA
  signed certificates. The Content-Type will be set to `application/pem-certificate-chain`
  to indicate the format of the response.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/connect/ca/roots
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "ActiveRootID": "c7:bd:55:4b:64:80:14:51:10:a4:b9:b9:d7:e0:75:3f:86:ba:bb:24",
  "TrustDomain": "7f42f496-fbc7-8692-05ed-334aa5340c1e.consul",
  "Roots": [
    {
      "ID": "c7:bd:55:4b:64:80:14:51:10:a4:b9:b9:d7:e0:75:3f:86:ba:bb:24",
      "Name": "Consul CA Root Cert",
      "SerialNumber": 7,
      "SigningKeyID": "2d:09:5d:84:b9:89:4b:dd:e3:88:bb:9c:e2:b2:69:81:1f:4b:a6:fd:4d:df:ee:74:63:f3:74:55:ca:b0:b5:65",
      "ExternalTrustDomain": "a1499528-fbf6-df7b-05e5-ae81e1873fc4",
      "NotBefore": "2018-05-25T21:39:23Z",
      "NotAfter": "2028-05-22T21:39:23Z",
      "RootCert": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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\nJ6lvm3HzEQw2AiEA4PVqWt+z8fsQht0cACM42kghL97SgDSf8rgCqfLYMng=\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n",
      "IntermediateCerts": null,
      "Active": true,
      "PrivateKeyType": "ec",
      "PrivateKeyBits": 256,
      "CreateIndex": 8,
      "ModifyIndex": 8
    }
  ]
}
```

### Sample PEM Encoded Response

```
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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-----END CERTIFICATE-----
```

## Get CA Configuration

This endpoint returns the current CA configuration.

| Method | Path                        | Produces           |
| ------ | --------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/connect/ca/configuration` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs/api-structure#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required                  |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `YES`            | `all`             | `none`        | `operator:write` <sup>1</sup> |

<sup>1</sup> ACL required was <code>operator:read</code> prior to versions 1.8.6,
1.7.10, and 1.6.10.

The corresponding CLI command is [`consul connect ca get-config`](/commands/connect/ca#get-config).

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/connect/ca/configuration
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
  "Provider": "consul",
  "Config": {
    "LeafCertTTL": "72h",
    "IntermediateCertTTL": "8760h"
  },
  "CreateIndex": 5,
  "ModifyIndex": 5
}
```

## Update CA Configuration

This endpoint updates the configuration for the CA. If this results in a
new root certificate being used, the [Root Rotation](/docs/connect/ca#root-certificate-rotation) process will be triggered.

| Method | Path                        | Produces           |
| ------ | --------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `PUT`  | `/connect/ca/configuration` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs/api-structure#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required     |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `operator:write` |

The corresponding CLI command is [`consul connect ca set-config`](/commands/connect/ca#set-config).

~> **If currently using Vault CA provider:**
   If you intend to change the CA provider from Vault to another,
   or to change the Vault provider's [`RootPKIPath`](/docs/connect/ca/vault#rootpkipath),
   you must temporarily elevate the privileges of the Vault token
   or auth method in use as described in the
   [Vault CA provider documentation](/docs/connect/ca/vault#additional-vault-acl-policies-for-sensitive-operations).

### JSON Request Body Schema

- `Provider` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the CA provider type to use.

- `Config` `(map[string]string: <required>)` - The raw configuration to use
  for the chosen provider. For more information on configuring the Connect CA
  providers, see [Provider Config](/docs/connect/ca).

- `ForceWithoutCrossSigning` `(bool: false)` - Indicates that the CA change
  should be forced to complete even if the current CA doesn't support root cross-signing.

  ~> **Caution:** Setting this field to `true` will cause temporary connection failures
  until service mesh proxies and/or Consul client agents receive a new certificate
  that establishes trust with the new root.
  Do not use this field unless you are sure you need it.
  Refer to [Forced Rotation Without Cross-Signing](/docs/connect/ca#forced-rotation-without-cross-signing)
  for more detail.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "Provider": "consul",
  "Config": {
    "LeafCertTTL": "72h",
    "PrivateKey": "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----...",
    "RootCert": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----...",
    "IntermediateCertTTL": "8760h"
  },
  "ForceWithoutCrossSigning": false
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request PUT \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/connect/ca/configuration
```
