website/content/commands/acl/policy/list.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Policy List'
---

# Consul ACL Policy List

Command: `consul acl policy list`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/policies](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/policies#list-policies)

The `acl policy list` command lists all policies. By default it will not show metadata.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl policy list`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-meta` - Indicates that policy metadata such as the content hash and
  Raft indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Default listing.

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy list
global-management:
   ID:           00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001
   Description:  Builtin Policy that grants unlimited access
   Datacenters:
acl-replication:
   ID:           35b8ecb0-707c-ee18-2002-81b238b54b38
   Description:  Policy capable of replicating ACL policies
   Datacenters:
```

Show Metadata.

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy list -meta
global-management:
   ID:           00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001
   Description:  Builtin Policy that grants unlimited access
   Datacenters:
   Hash:         b30210b7aba9facd1c57891e3df27669174a08b690cb2905e0797535f75eba69
   Create Index: 4
   Modify Index: 4
node-services-read:
   ID:           06acc965-df4b-5a99-58cb-3250930c6324
   Description:  Can read any node and service
   Datacenters:
   Hash:         19d2a73dcd315506af73bfff1492779a0dc0235066fcac07f432fb2cc3402133
   Create Index: 244
   Modify Index: 244
acl-replication:
   ID:           ca44555b-a2d8-94de-d763-88caffdaf11f
   Description:  Token capable of replicating ACL policies
   Datacenters:  dc1, dc2
   Hash:         b94669679cc24e0d064412e4aa90b470b7f900a8e0801f65feaf1f7d716a5390
   Create Index: 198
   Modify Index: 198
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/acl/policy/list.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Policy List'
---

# Consul ACL Policy List

Command: `consul acl policy list`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/policies](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/policies#list-policies)

The `acl policy list` command lists all policies. By default it will not show metadata.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:read`   |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl policy list`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-meta` - Indicates that policy metadata such as the content hash and
  Raft indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Default listing.

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy list
global-management:
   ID:           00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001
   Description:  Builtin Policy that grants unlimited access
   Datacenters:
acl-replication:
   ID:           35b8ecb0-707c-ee18-2002-81b238b54b38
   Description:  Policy capable of replicating ACL policies
   Datacenters:
```

Show Metadata.

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy list -meta
global-management:
   ID:           00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001
   Description:  Builtin Policy that grants unlimited access
   Datacenters:
   Hash:         b30210b7aba9facd1c57891e3df27669174a08b690cb2905e0797535f75eba69
   Create Index: 4
   Modify Index: 4
node-services-read:
   ID:           06acc965-df4b-5a99-58cb-3250930c6324
   Description:  Can read any node and service
   Datacenters:
   Hash:         19d2a73dcd315506af73bfff1492779a0dc0235066fcac07f432fb2cc3402133
   Create Index: 244
   Modify Index: 244
acl-replication:
   ID:           ca44555b-a2d8-94de-d763-88caffdaf11f
   Description:  Token capable of replicating ACL policies
   Datacenters:  dc1, dc2
   Hash:         b94669679cc24e0d064412e4aa90b470b7f900a8e0801f65feaf1f7d716a5390
   Create Index: 198
   Modify Index: 198
```
