website/content/commands/acl/policy/read.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Policy Read'
---

# Consul ACL Policy Read

Command: `consul acl policy read`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoints: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/policy/:id](/consul/api-docs/acl/policies#read-a-policy), [\[GET\] /v1/acl/policy/name/:name](/consul/api-docs/acl/policies#read-a-policy-by-name)

The `acl policy read` command reads and displays a policies details.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:read`   |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl policy read [options] [args]`

#### Command Options

- `-id=<string>` - The ID of the policy to read. It may be specified as a unique ID
  prefix but will error if the prefix matches multiple policy IDs.

- `-meta` - Indicates that policy metadata such as the content hash and raft
  indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-name=<string>` - The name of the policy to read.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Get policy details:

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy read -id 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001
ID:           00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001
Name:         global-management
Description:  Builtin Policy that grants unlimited access
Datacenters:
Rules:

acl = "write"
agent_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
event_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
key_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
keyring = "write"
node_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
operator = "write"
query_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
service_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
   intentions = "write"
}
session_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
```

Get policy details by name:

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy read -name "acl-replication"
ID:           35b8ecb0-707c-ee18-2002-81b238b54b38
Name:         acl-replication
Description:  Token capable of replicating ACL policies
Datacenters:
Rules:
acl = "read"
```

Get policy details (Builtin Policies):

Builtin policies can be accessed by specifying their original name as the value to the `-id` parameter.

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy read -id global-management
ID:           00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001
Name:         global-management
Description:  Builtin Policy that grants unlimited access
Datacenters:
Hash:         b30210b7aba9facd1c57891e3df27669174a08b690cb2905e0797535f75eba69
Create Index: 4
Modify Index: 4
Rules:

acl = "write"
agent_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
event_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
key_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
keyring = "write"
node_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
operator = "write"
query_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
service_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
   intentions = "write"
}
session_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/acl/policy/read.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Policy Read'
description: |
  The `consul acl policy read` command outputs rules that make up an ACL policy of the specified ID.
---

# Consul ACL Policy Read

Command: `consul acl policy read`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoints: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/policy/:id](/consul/api-docs/acl/policies#read-a-policy), [\[GET\] /v1/acl/policy/name/:name](/consul/api-docs/acl/policies#read-a-policy-by-name)

The `acl policy read` command reads and displays a policies details.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:read`   |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl policy read [options] [args]`

#### Command Options

- `-id=<string>` - The ID of the policy to read. It may be specified as a unique ID
  prefix but will error if the prefix matches multiple policy IDs.

- `-meta` - Indicates that policy metadata such as the content hash and raft
  indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-name=<string>` - The name of the policy to read.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Get policy details:

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy read -id 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001
ID:           00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001
Name:         global-management
Description:  Builtin Policy that grants unlimited access
Datacenters:
Rules:

acl = "write"
agent_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
event_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
key_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
keyring = "write"
node_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
operator = "write"
query_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
service_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
   intentions = "write"
}
session_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
```

Get policy details by name:

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy read -name "acl-replication"
ID:           35b8ecb0-707c-ee18-2002-81b238b54b38
Name:         acl-replication
Description:  Token capable of replicating ACL policies
Datacenters:
Rules:
acl = "read"
```

Get policy details (Builtin Policies):

Builtin policies can be accessed by specifying their original name as the value to the `-id` parameter.

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy read -id global-management
ID:           00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001
Name:         global-management
Description:  Builtin Policy that grants unlimited access
Datacenters:
Hash:         b30210b7aba9facd1c57891e3df27669174a08b690cb2905e0797535f75eba69
Create Index: 4
Modify Index: 4
Rules:

acl = "write"
agent_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
event_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
key_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
keyring = "write"
node_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
operator = "write"
query_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
service_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
   intentions = "write"
}
session_prefix "" {
   policy = "write"
}
```
