website/content/commands/acl/policy/update.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Policy Update'
---

# Consul ACL Policy Update

Command: `consul acl policy update`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/policy/:id](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/policies#update-a-policy)

The `acl policy update` command is used to update a policy. The default operations is to merge the current policy
with those values provided to the command invocation. Therefore to update just one field, only
the `-id` or `-name` options and the option to modify must be provided. Note that renaming
policies requires both the `-id` and `-name` as the new name cannot yet be used to lookup the
policy.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl policy update [options] [args]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the policy.

- `-id=<string>` - The ID of the policy to update. It may be specified as a
  unique ID prefix but will error if the prefix matches multiple policy IDs

- `-meta` - Indicates that policy metadata such as the content hash and raft
  indices should be shown for each entry

- `-name=<string>` - The policy's name.

- `-no-merge` - Do not merge the current policy information with what is provided
  to the command. Instead overwrite all fields with the exception of
  the policy ID which is immutable.

- `-rules=<string>` - The policy rules. May be prefixed with `@` to indicate that
  the value is a file path to load the rules from. `-` may also be given to
  indicate that the rules are available on stdin.

- `-valid-datacenter=<value>` - Datacenter that the policy should be valid within.
  This flag may be specified multiple times.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Update a policy:

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy update -id 35b8 -name "replication" -description "Policy capable of replication ACL policies and Intentions" -rules @rules.hcl
Policy updated successfully
ID:           35b8ecb0-707c-ee18-2002-81b238b54b38
Name:         replication
Description:  Policy capable of replication ACL policies and Intentions
Datacenters:
Rules:
acl = "read"

service_prefix "" {
   policy = "read"
   intentions = "read"
}
```

Rename a policy:

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy update -id 35b8 -name "dc1-replication"
Policy updated successfully
ID:           35b8ecb0-707c-ee18-2002-81b238b54b38
Name:         dc1-replication
Description:  Policy capable of replication ACL policies and Intentions
Datacenters:  dc1
Rules:
acl = "read"

service_prefix "" {
   policy = "read"
   intentions = "read"
}
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/acl/policy/update.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Policy Update'
---

# Consul ACL Policy Update

Command: `consul acl policy update`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/policy/:id](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/policies#update-a-policy)

The `acl policy update` command is used to update a policy. The default operations is to merge the current policy
with those values provided to the command invocation. Therefore to update just one field, only
the `-id` or `-name` options and the option to modify must be provided. Note that renaming
policies requires both the `-id` and `-name` as the new name cannot yet be used to lookup the
policy.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl policy update [options] [args]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the policy.

- `-id=<string>` - The ID of the policy to update. It may be specified as a
  unique ID prefix but will error if the prefix matches multiple policy IDs

- `-meta` - Indicates that policy metadata such as the content hash and raft
  indices should be shown for each entry

- `-name=<string>` - The policy's name.

- `-no-merge` - Do not merge the current policy information with what is provided
  to the command. Instead overwrite all fields with the exception of
  the policy ID which is immutable.

- `-rules=<string>` - The policy rules. May be prefixed with `@` to indicate that
  the value is a file path to load the rules from. `-` may also be given to
  indicate that the rules are available on stdin.

- `-valid-datacenter=<value>` - Datacenter that the policy should be valid within.
  This flag may be specified multiple times.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Update a policy:

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy update -id 35b8 -name "replication" -description "Policy capable of replication ACL policies and Intentions" -rules @rules.hcl
Policy updated successfully
ID:           35b8ecb0-707c-ee18-2002-81b238b54b38
Name:         replication
Description:  Policy capable of replication ACL policies and Intentions
Datacenters:
Rules:
acl = "read"

service_prefix "" {
   policy = "read"
   intentions = "read"
}
```

Rename a policy:

```shell-session
$ consul acl policy update -id 35b8 -name "dc1-replication"
Policy updated successfully
ID:           35b8ecb0-707c-ee18-2002-81b238b54b38
Name:         dc1-replication
Description:  Policy capable of replication ACL policies and Intentions
Datacenters:  dc1
Rules:
acl = "read"

service_prefix "" {
   policy = "read"
   intentions = "read"
}
```
