ui/packages/consul-ui/app/modifiers/tooltip.mdx, before:

# tooltip

Consul UIs tooltip modifier is a thin wrapper around the excellent `tippy.js`. The
most common usage will be something like the below:

```hbs preview-template
<span
  {{tooltip "Tooltip message"}}
>
  Hover over me
</span>
```

A `tabindex=0` is automatically added to the element that triggers the tooltip if it doesn't have one already to make sure the tooltip is in the natural tabbing order of the document.

An additional options hash can be passed into the tooltip the contents of
which are passed along to `tippy.js` [so all of the `tippy.js`
props](https://atomiks.github.io/tippyjs/v5/all-props/) can be used to control
tooltips, including `tippy.js` plugins.

```hbs preview-template


<span
  {{tooltip "Tooltip message" options=(hash
    showOnCreate=true
    hideOnClick=false
    placement="bottom"
  )}}
>
  No need to hover over me
</span>
```

An options hash has been chosen to begin, as and when its clear what common
groups of settings are used throughout the app we can add new properties to
the modifer without the risk of clashing with any `tippy.js` props.

We also have a Tooltip component but this modifier is preferred over that.

Commit message:

ui: Fix up tippy console warning... (#14524)
...enabling/disabling now depends on whether the string is non-empty

ui/packages/consul-ui/app/modifiers/tooltip.mdx, after:

# tooltip

Consul UIs tooltip modifier is a thin wrapper around the excellent `tippy.js`. The
most common usage will be something like the below:

```hbs preview-template
<span
  {{tooltip "Tooltip message"}}
>
  Hover over me
</span>
```

A `tabindex=0` is automatically added to the element that triggers the tooltip
if it doesn't have one already to make sure the tooltip is in the natural
tabbing order of the document.

If you specify and empty string as a content, then the tooltip will not show,
you can use this to conditionally disable/enable tooltips. It additionally
means empty tooltips can not been added by accident.

```hbs preview-template
<span
  {{tooltip (if false 'Never show this' '')}}
>
  Hover over me
</span>
```

An additional options hash can be passed into the tooltip the contents of
which are passed along to `tippy.js` [so all of the `tippy.js`
props](https://atomiks.github.io/tippyjs/v5/all-props/) can be used to control
tooltips, including `tippy.js` plugins.

```hbs preview-template


<span
  {{tooltip "Tooltip message" options=(hash
    showOnCreate=true
    hideOnClick=false
    placement="bottom"
  )}}
>
  No need to hover over me
</span>
```

An options hash has been chosen to begin, as and when its clear what common
groups of settings are used throughout the app we can add new properties to
the modifer without the risk of clashing with any `tippy.js` props.

We also have a Tooltip component but this modifier is preferred over that.
