website/content/commands/catalog/services.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Catalog List Services'
---

# Consul Catalog List Services

Command: `consul catalog services`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/catalog/services](/consul/api-docs/catalog#list-services)

The `catalog services` command prints all known services. It can also query
for services that match particular metadata or list the services that a
particular node provides.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required   |
| -------------- |
| `service:read` |

## Examples

List all services:

```shell-session
$ consul catalog services
consul
postgresql
redis
```

Show all services with their tags:

```shell-session
$ consul catalog services -tags
consul
postgresql  leader
redis       primary,v1
```

List services for the node "worker-01":

```shell-session
$ consul catalog services -node=worker-01
consul
redis
```

## Usage

Usage: `consul catalog services [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-node=<id or name>` - Node `id or name` for which to list services.

- `-node-meta=<key=value>` - Metadata to filter nodes with the given
  `key=value` pairs. If specified, only services running on nodes matching the
  given metadata will be returned. This flag may be specified multiple times to
  filter on multiple sources of metadata.

- `-tags` - Display each service's tags as a comma-separated list beside each
  service entry.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/catalog/services.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Catalog List Services'
description: >-
  The `consul catalog services` command returns all known services. It can also get a list of services on a particular node and query services that contain specific metadata.
---

# Consul Catalog List Services

Command: `consul catalog services`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/catalog/services](/consul/api-docs/catalog#list-services)

The `catalog services` command prints all known services. It can also query
for services that match particular metadata or list the services that a
particular node provides.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required   |
| -------------- |
| `service:read` |

## Examples

List all services:

```shell-session
$ consul catalog services
consul
postgresql
redis
```

Show all services with their tags:

```shell-session
$ consul catalog services -tags
consul
postgresql  leader
redis       primary,v1
```

List services for the node "worker-01":

```shell-session
$ consul catalog services -node=worker-01
consul
redis
```

## Usage

Usage: `consul catalog services [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-node=<id or name>` - Node `id or name` for which to list services.

- `-node-meta=<key=value>` - Metadata to filter nodes with the given
  `key=value` pairs. If specified, only services running on nodes matching the
  given metadata will be returned. This flag may be specified multiple times to
  filter on multiple sources of metadata.

- `-tags` - Display each service's tags as a comma-separated list beside each
  service entry.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'
