website/content/commands/acl/token/clone.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Token Clone'
---

# Consul ACL Token Clone

Command: `consul acl token clone`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/token/:AccessorID/clone](/consul/api-docs/acl/tokens#clone-a-token)

The `acl token clone` command clones an existing token.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl token clone [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the new cloned token.

- `-id=<string>` - The Accessor ID of the token to clone. It may be specified
  as a unique ID prefix but will error if the prefix matches multiple token
  Accessor IDs. The special value of 'anonymous' may be provided instead of
  the anonymous tokens accessor ID

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Clone a token:

```shell-session
$ consul acl token clone -id 59f8 -description "Clone of Super User"
Token cloned successfully.
AccessorID:   dcfa52ed-9288-b3ff-056d-255ef69d2d88
SecretID:     0005d17e-5bb2-7e8b-7bfa-15f2eee9ad14
Description:  Clone of Super User
Local:        false
Create Time:  2018-10-22 16:26:02.909096 -0400 EDT
Policies:
   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001 - global-management
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/acl/token/clone.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Token Clone'
description: |
  The `consul acl token clone` command makes a copy of the ACL token of a specified ID.
---

# Consul ACL Token Clone

Command: `consul acl token clone`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/token/:AccessorID/clone](/consul/api-docs/acl/tokens#clone-a-token)

The `acl token clone` command clones an existing token.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl token clone [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the new cloned token.

- `-id=<string>` - The Accessor ID of the token to clone. It may be specified
  as a unique ID prefix but will error if the prefix matches multiple token
  Accessor IDs. The special value of 'anonymous' may be provided instead of
  the anonymous tokens accessor ID

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Clone a token:

```shell-session
$ consul acl token clone -id 59f8 -description "Clone of Super User"
Token cloned successfully.
AccessorID:   dcfa52ed-9288-b3ff-056d-255ef69d2d88
SecretID:     0005d17e-5bb2-7e8b-7bfa-15f2eee9ad14
Description:  Clone of Super User
Local:        false
Create Time:  2018-10-22 16:26:02.909096 -0400 EDT
Policies:
   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001 - global-management
```
