website/content/commands/acl/token/delete.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Token Delete'
---

# Consul ACL Token Delete

Command: `consul acl token delete`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[DELETE\] /v1/acl/token/:AccessorID](/consul/api-docs/acl/tokens#delete-a-token)

The `acl token delete` command deletes a token.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl token delete [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-id=<string>` - The ID of the token to delete. It may be specified as a
  unique ID prefix but will error if the prefix matches multiple token IDs.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Delete a token:

```shell-session
$ consul acl token delete -id 35b8
Token "35b8ecb0-707c-ee18-2002-81b238b54b38" deleted successfully
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/acl/token/delete.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Token Delete'
description: |
  The `consul acl token delete` command deletes an ACL token of a specified ID. Deleting a token affects the ACL policies and roles attached to the token.
---

# Consul ACL Token Delete

Command: `consul acl token delete`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[DELETE\] /v1/acl/token/:AccessorID](/consul/api-docs/acl/tokens#delete-a-token)

The `acl token delete` command deletes a token.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl token delete [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-id=<string>` - The ID of the token to delete. It may be specified as a
  unique ID prefix but will error if the prefix matches multiple token IDs.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Delete a token:

```shell-session
$ consul acl token delete -id 35b8
Token "35b8ecb0-707c-ee18-2002-81b238b54b38" deleted successfully
```
