website/content/commands/acl/token/list.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Token List'
---

# Consul ACL Token List

Command: `consul acl token list`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/tokens](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/tokens#list-tokens)

The `acl token list` command lists all tokens. By default it will not show metadata.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl token list`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-meta` - Indicates that token metadata such as the content hash and
  Raft indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Default listing.

```shell-session
$ consul acl token list
AccessorID:   4d123dff-f460-73c3-02c4-8dd64d136e01
Description:  Bootstrap Token (Global Management)
Local:        false
Create Time:  2018-10-22 11:27:04.479026 -0400 EDT
Legacy:       false
Policies:
   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001 - global-management

AccessorID:   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000002
Description:  Anonymous Token
Local:        false
Create Time:  0001-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
Legacy:       false
Policies:
   06acc965-df4b-5a99-58cb-3250930c6324 - node-services-read

AccessorID:   986193b5-e2b5-eb26-6264-b524ea60cc6d
Description:  WonderToken
Local:        false
Create Time:  2018-10-22 15:33:39.01789 -0400 EDT
Legacy:       false
Policies:
   06acc965-df4b-5a99-58cb-3250930c6324 - node-services-read
Service Identities:
   wonderservice (Datacenters: all)

AccessorID:       def4895d-eeb9-f78a-fbb9-2a15a568af31
Description:      Node 1 agent token
Local:            false
Create Time:      2020-12-22 04:19:30.552528733 +0000 UTC
Legacy:           false
Node Identities:
   node1 (Datacenter: dc1)
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/acl/token/list.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Token List'
---

# Consul ACL Token List

Command: `consul acl token list`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/tokens](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/tokens#list-tokens)

The `acl token list` command lists all tokens. By default it will not show metadata.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:read`   |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl token list`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-meta` - Indicates that token metadata such as the content hash and
  Raft indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Default listing.

```shell-session
$ consul acl token list
AccessorID:   4d123dff-f460-73c3-02c4-8dd64d136e01
Description:  Bootstrap Token (Global Management)
Local:        false
Create Time:  2018-10-22 11:27:04.479026 -0400 EDT
Legacy:       false
Policies:
   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000001 - global-management

AccessorID:   00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000002
Description:  Anonymous Token
Local:        false
Create Time:  0001-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
Legacy:       false
Policies:
   06acc965-df4b-5a99-58cb-3250930c6324 - node-services-read

AccessorID:   986193b5-e2b5-eb26-6264-b524ea60cc6d
Description:  WonderToken
Local:        false
Create Time:  2018-10-22 15:33:39.01789 -0400 EDT
Legacy:       false
Policies:
   06acc965-df4b-5a99-58cb-3250930c6324 - node-services-read
Service Identities:
   wonderservice (Datacenters: all)

AccessorID:       def4895d-eeb9-f78a-fbb9-2a15a568af31
Description:      Node 1 agent token
Local:            false
Create Time:      2020-12-22 04:19:30.552528733 +0000 UTC
Legacy:           false
Node Identities:
   node1 (Datacenter: dc1)
```
