website/content/commands/acl/binding-rule/create.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Binding Rule Create'
---

# Consul ACL Binding Rule Create

Command: `consul acl binding-rule create`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/binding-rule](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/binding-rules#create-a-binding-rule)

The `acl binding-rule create` command creates new binding rules.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl binding-rule create [options] [args]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-bind-name=<string>` - Name to bind on match. Can use `${var}`
  interpolation. This flag is required.

- `-bind-type=<string>` - Type of binding to perform (`"service"` or `"role"`).

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the binding rule.

- `-meta` - Indicates that binding rule metadata such as the raft
  indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-method=<string>` - The auth method's name for which this binding rule
  applies. This flag is required.

- `-selector=<string>` - Selector is an expression that matches against
  verified identity attributes returned from the auth method during login.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Create a new binding rule that binds to a service identity:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule create -method 'minikube' \
    -description 'wildcard service' \
    -bind-type 'service' \
    -bind-name 'k8s-${serviceaccount.name}' \
    -selector 'serviceaccount.namespace==default and serviceaccount.name!=vault'
ID:           0ec1bd2f-1d3b-bafb-d9bf-90ef04ab1890
AuthMethod:   minikube
Description:  wildcard service
BindType:     service
BindName:     k8s-${serviceaccount.name}
Selector:     serviceaccount.namespace==default and serviceaccount.name!=vault
```

Create a new binding rule that binds to a role:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule create -method 'minikube' \
    -description 'just vault role' \
    -bind-type 'role' \
    -bind-name 'vault' \
    -selector 'serviceaccount.namespace==default and serviceaccount.name==vault'
ID:           e21ae868-7b13-a230-0235-f8e83510642c
AuthMethod:   minikube
Description:  just vault role
BindType:     role
BindName:     vault
Selector:     serviceaccount.namespace==default and serviceaccount.name==vault
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/acl/binding-rule/create.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Binding Rule Create'
---

# Consul ACL Binding Rule Create

Command: `consul acl binding-rule create`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/acl/binding-rule](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/acl/binding-rules#create-a-binding-rule)

The `acl binding-rule create` command creates new binding rules.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl binding-rule create [options] [args]`

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

#### Command Options

- `-bind-name=<string>` - Name to bind on match. Can use `${var}`
  interpolation. This flag is required.

- `-bind-type=<string>` - Type of binding to perform (`"service"` or `"role"`).

- `-description=<string>` - A description of the binding rule.

- `-meta` - Indicates that binding rule metadata such as the raft
  indices should be shown for each entry.

- `-method=<string>` - The auth method's name for which this binding rule
  applies. This flag is required.

- `-selector=<string>` - Selector is an expression that matches against
  verified identity attributes returned from the auth method during login.

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_namespace_options.mdx'

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

## Examples

Create a new binding rule that binds to a service identity:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule create -method 'minikube' \
    -description 'wildcard service' \
    -bind-type 'service' \
    -bind-name 'k8s-${serviceaccount.name}' \
    -selector 'serviceaccount.namespace==default and serviceaccount.name!=vault'
ID:           0ec1bd2f-1d3b-bafb-d9bf-90ef04ab1890
AuthMethod:   minikube
Description:  wildcard service
BindType:     service
BindName:     k8s-${serviceaccount.name}
Selector:     serviceaccount.namespace==default and serviceaccount.name!=vault
```

Create a new binding rule that binds to a role:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule create -method 'minikube' \
    -description 'just vault role' \
    -bind-type 'role' \
    -bind-name 'vault' \
    -selector 'serviceaccount.namespace==default and serviceaccount.name==vault'
ID:           e21ae868-7b13-a230-0235-f8e83510642c
AuthMethod:   minikube
Description:  just vault role
BindType:     role
BindName:     vault
Selector:     serviceaccount.namespace==default and serviceaccount.name==vault
```
