website/content/commands/acl/binding-rule/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Binding Rule'
---

# Consul ACL Binding Rules

Command: `consul acl binding-rule`

The `acl binding-rule` command is used to manage Consul's ACL binding rules.
It exposes commands for creating, updating, reading, deleting, and listing binding rules.
This command is available in Consul 1.5.0 and newer.

ACL binding rules may also be managed via the [HTTP API](/consul/api-docs/acl/binding-rules).

-> **Note:** All of the example subcommands in this document will require a valid
Consul token with the appropriate permissions. Either set the
`CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable to the token's secret ID or pass the
secret ID as the value of the `-token` parameter.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl binding-rule <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul acl binding-rule -h` to view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul acl binding-rule <subcommand> [options] [args]

  ...

Subcommands:
    create    Create an ACL binding rule
    delete    Delete an ACL binding rule
    list      Lists ACL binding rules
    read      Read an ACL binding rule
    update    Update an ACL binding rule
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Identifying Binding Rules

Several of the subcommands need to operate on a specific binding rule. Those
subcommands support specifying the binding rule by its ID using the `-id`
parameter.

When specifying the binding rule by its ID a unique binding rule ID prefix may
be specified instead of the entire UUID. As long as it is unique it will be
resolved to the full UUID and used.

## Basic Examples

Create a new binding rule:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule create \
      -method=minikube \
      -bind-type=service \
      -bind-name='k8s-${serviceaccount.name}' \
      -selector='serviceaccount.namespace==default and serviceaccount.name==web'
```

List all binding rules:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule list
```

Update a binding rule:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule update -id=43cb72df-9c6f-4315-ac8a-01a9d98155ef \
      -bind-name='k8s-${serviceaccount.name}'
```

Read a binding rule:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule read -id fdabbcb5-9de5-4b1a-961f-77214ae88cba
```

Delete a binding rule:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule delete -id b6b856da-5193-4e78-845a-7d61ca8371ba
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/acl/binding-rule/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Binding Rule'
description: |
  The `consul acl binding-rule` command interacts with Consul's ACL binding rules. It exposes commands for creating, updating, reading, deleting, and listing rules that bind auth methods to a specific service or role.
---

# Consul ACL Binding Rules

Command: `consul acl binding-rule`

The `acl binding-rule` command is used to manage Consul's ACL binding rules.
It exposes commands for creating, updating, reading, deleting, and listing binding rules.
This command is available in Consul 1.5.0 and newer.

ACL binding rules may also be managed via the [HTTP API](/consul/api-docs/acl/binding-rules).

-> **Note:** All of the example subcommands in this document will require a valid
Consul token with the appropriate permissions. Either set the
`CONSUL_HTTP_TOKEN` environment variable to the token's secret ID or pass the
secret ID as the value of the `-token` parameter.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl binding-rule <subcommand>`

For the exact documentation for your Consul version, run `consul acl binding-rule -h` to view the complete list of subcommands.

```text
Usage: consul acl binding-rule <subcommand> [options] [args]

  ...

Subcommands:
    create    Create an ACL binding rule
    delete    Delete an ACL binding rule
    list      Lists ACL binding rules
    read      Read an ACL binding rule
    update    Update an ACL binding rule
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar.

## Identifying Binding Rules

Several of the subcommands need to operate on a specific binding rule. Those
subcommands support specifying the binding rule by its ID using the `-id`
parameter.

When specifying the binding rule by its ID a unique binding rule ID prefix may
be specified instead of the entire UUID. As long as it is unique it will be
resolved to the full UUID and used.

## Basic Examples

Create a new binding rule:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule create \
      -method=minikube \
      -bind-type=service \
      -bind-name='k8s-${serviceaccount.name}' \
      -selector='serviceaccount.namespace==default and serviceaccount.name==web'
```

List all binding rules:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule list
```

Update a binding rule:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule update -id=43cb72df-9c6f-4315-ac8a-01a9d98155ef \
      -bind-name='k8s-${serviceaccount.name}'
```

Read a binding rule:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule read -id fdabbcb5-9de5-4b1a-961f-77214ae88cba
```

Delete a binding rule:

```shell-session
$ consul acl binding-rule delete -id b6b856da-5193-4e78-845a-7d61ca8371ba
```
