website/content/commands/peering/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Peering'
---

# Consul Peering

Command: `consul peering`

Use the `peering` command to create and manage peering connections between Consul clusters, including token generation and consumption. Refer to 
[Create and Manage Peerings Connections](/consul/docs/connect/cluster-peering/create-manage-peering) for an
overview of the CLI workflow for cluster peering.

## Usage

```text
Usage: consul peering <subcommand> [options]

  # ...

Subcommands:

    delete          Close and delete a peering connection
    establish       Consume a peering token and establish a connection with the accepting cluster
    generate-token  Generate a peering token for use by a dialing cluster
    list            List the local cluster's peering connections
    read            Read detailed information on a peering connection
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar or one of the links below:

- [delete](/consul/commands/peering/delete)
- [establish](/consul/commands/peering/establish)
- [generate-token](/consul/commands/peering/generate-token)
- [list](/consul/commands/peering/list)
- [read](/consul/commands/peering/read)

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/peering/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Peering'
description: |
  The `consul peering` command interacts cluster peering connections. It exposes top-level commands to generate peering tokens. establish connections, and manage connections.
---

# Consul Peering

Command: `consul peering`

Use the `peering` command to create and manage peering connections between Consul clusters, including token generation and consumption. Refer to 
[Create and Manage Peerings Connections](/consul/docs/connect/cluster-peering/create-manage-peering) for an
overview of the CLI workflow for cluster peering.

## Usage

```text
Usage: consul peering <subcommand> [options]

  # ...

Subcommands:

    delete          Close and delete a peering connection
    establish       Consume a peering token and establish a connection with the accepting cluster
    generate-token  Generate a peering token for use by a dialing cluster
    list            List the local cluster's peering connections
    read            Read detailed information on a peering connection
```

For more information, examples, and usage about a subcommand, click on the name
of the subcommand in the sidebar or one of the links below:

- [delete](/consul/commands/peering/delete)
- [establish](/consul/commands/peering/establish)
- [generate-token](/consul/commands/peering/generate-token)
- [list](/consul/commands/peering/list)
- [read](/consul/commands/peering/read)
