website/content/commands/peering/list.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Peering List'
---

# Consul Peering List

Command: `consul peering List`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/peerings](/consul/api-docs/peering#list-all-peerings)

The `peering list` lists all peering connections.
The results are filtered according to ACL policy configuration.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication).

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `peering:read`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul peering list [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

## Examples

The following example lists all peering connections associated with the cluster:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul peering list
Name        State    Imported Svcs  Exported Svcs  Meta
cluster-02  ACTIVE   0              2              env=production
cluster-03  PENDING  0              0
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/peering/list.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: Peering List'
description: |
  The `consul peering lists` command outputs a list of the local cluster's cluster peering connections, including imported and exported service counts and the connection state.
---

# Consul Peering List

Command: `consul peering List`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/peerings](/consul/api-docs/peering#list-all-peerings)

The `peering list` lists all peering connections.
The results are filtered according to ACL policy configuration.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication).

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `peering:read`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul peering list [options]`

#### Command Options

- `-format={pretty|json}` - Command output format. The default value is `pretty`.

#### Enterprise Options

@include 'http_api_partition_options.mdx'

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

## Examples

The following example lists all peering connections associated with the cluster:

```shell-session hideClipboard
$ consul peering list
Name        State    Imported Svcs  Exported Svcs  Meta
cluster-02  ACTIVE   0              2              env=production
cluster-03  PENDING  0              0
```
