website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/gossip.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Storing Gossip Encryption Key in Vault
description: >-
  Configuring the Consul Helm chart to use gossip encryption key stored in Vault.
---

# Storing Gossip Encryption Key in Vault

To use a gossip encryption key stored in Vault we need the following:

1. Generate and store an encryption key in Vault.
1. Create policies that will allow Consul client and server to access that key.
1. Create a Kubernetes auth roles that link policies from step 2 to Kubernetes service accounts of the Consul servers and clients.

## Configuring Vault

First, generate and store the gossip key in Vault:

```shell-session
vault kv put secret/consul/gossip key="$(consul keygen)"
```

Next, we will need to create a policy that allows read access to this secret:

```shell-session
# gossip-policy.hcl
path "secret/data/consul/gossip" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

```shell-session
vault policy write gossip-policy gossip-policy.hcl
```

Prior to creating auth roles for the Consul server and client, ensure that the Vault Kubernetes auth method is enabled:

```shell-session
vault auth enable kubernetes
```

Next, we will create Kubernetes auth roles for the Consul server and client:

```shell-session
vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul server service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=gossip-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

```shell-session
vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul client service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=gossip-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

To find out the service account names of the Consul server and client,
you can run the following `helm template` commands with your Consul on Kubernetes values file:

```
# Generate Consul server service account name
helm template --release-name <your release name> -s templates/server-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
# Generate Consul client service account name
helm template --release-name <your release name> -s templates/client-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

## Deploying the Consul Helm chart

Now that we've configured Vault, you can configure the Consul Helm chart to
use the gossip key in Vault:

```yaml
global:
  secretsBackend:
    vault:
      enabled: true
      consulServerRole: consul-server
      consulClientRole: consul-client
    gossipEncryption:
      secretName: secret/data/consul/gossip
      secretKey: key
```

Note that `global.gossipEncryption.secretName` is the path of the secret in Vault.
This should be the same path as the one you'd include in your Vault policy.
`global.gossipEncryption.secretKey` is the key inside the secret data. This should be the same
as the key we passed when we created the gossip secret in Vault.

Commit message:

docs: Clarification of Vault Consul K8s requirements for Auth Method (#11929)
* docs: Clarification of Vault Consul K8s requirements

* link back to requirements

* Update gossip.mdx

* Update index.mdx

* add details for K8s auth method requirement

* Update gossip.mdx

* Update server-tls.mdx

* Update connect-ca.mdx

* Update gossip.mdx

* Update server-tls.mdx

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/gossip.mdx

Co-authored-by: mrspanishviking <kcardenas@hashicorp.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: mrspanishviking <kcardenas@hashicorp.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: mrspanishviking <kcardenas@hashicorp.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: mrspanishviking <kcardenas@hashicorp.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/server-tls.mdx

Co-authored-by: mrspanishviking <kcardenas@hashicorp.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: mrspanishviking <kcardenas@hashicorp.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: mrspanishviking <kcardenas@hashicorp.com>

* Update index.mdx

* Update index.mdx

Co-authored-by: mrspanishviking <kcardenas@hashicorp.com>

website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/gossip.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Storing Gossip Encryption Key in Vault
description: >-
  Configuring the Consul Helm chart to use gossip encryption key stored in Vault.
---

# Storing Gossip Encryption Key in Vault

To use a gossip encryption key stored in Vault we need the following:

1. Generate and store an encryption key in Vault.
1. Create policies that will allow Consul client and server to access that key.
1. Create a Kubernetes auth roles that link policies from step 2 to Kubernetes service accounts of the Consul servers and clients.

## Configuring Vault

First, generate and store the gossip key in Vault:

```shell-session
vault kv put secret/consul/gossip key="$(consul keygen)"
```

Next, we will need to create a policy that allows read access to this secret:

```shell-session
# gossip-policy.hcl
path "secret/data/consul/gossip" {
  capabilities = ["read"]
}
```

```shell-session
vault policy write gossip-policy gossip-policy.hcl
```

Prior to creating Vault auth roles for the Consul servers and clients, ensure that the Vault Kubernetes auth method is enabled as described in [Vault Kubernetes Auth Method](/docs/k8s/installation/vault#vault-kubernetes-auth-method).

Next, we will create Kubernetes auth roles for the Consul server and client:

```shell-session
vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul server service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=gossip-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

```shell-session
vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-client \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul client service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=gossip-policy \
    ttl=1h
```

To find out the service account names of the Consul server and client,
you can run the following `helm template` commands with your Consul on Kubernetes values file:

```
# Generate Consul server service account name
helm template --release-name <your release name> -s templates/server-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
# Generate Consul client service account name
helm template --release-name <your release name> -s templates/client-serviceaccount.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

## Deploying the Consul Helm chart

Now that we've configured Vault, you can configure the Consul Helm chart to
use the gossip key in Vault:

```yaml
global:
  secretsBackend:
    vault:
      enabled: true
      consulServerRole: consul-server
      consulClientRole: consul-client
    gossipEncryption:
      secretName: secret/data/consul/gossip
      secretKey: key
```

Note that `global.gossipEncryption.secretName` is the path of the secret in Vault.
This should be the same path as the one you'd include in your Vault policy.
`global.gossipEncryption.secretKey` is the key inside the secret data. This should be the same
as the key we passed when we created the gossip secret in Vault.
