website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/index.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault as Secrets Backend Overview
description: >-
  Using Vault as secrets backend for Consul on Kubernetes.
---

# Vault as Secrets Backend Overview

By default, Consul Helm chart will expect that any credentials it needs are stored as Kubernetes secrets.
As of Consul 1.11 and Consul Helm chart v0.38.0, we integrate more natively with Vault making it easier
to use Consul Helm chart with Vault as the secrets storage backend.

At a high level, there are two points of integration with Vault:
- **Gossip encryption** - The encryption key for gossip communication is stored in Vault.
- **TLS certificates and keys**:
  - **Consul Server TLS credentials** - TLS certificate and key for the Consul server is stored in Vault and issued from Vault.
  - **Service Mesh and Consul client TLS credentials** - Consul uses Vault as the provider for mTLS certificates and keys for the service mesh services
  and TLS certificates and keys for the Consul clients.

## Requirements

1. Vault 1.9+ and Vault-k8s 0.14+ is required.
1. Vault must be installed and accessible to the Consul on Kubernetes installation.
1. `global.tls.enableAutoencrypt=true` is required if TLS is enabled for the Consul installation when using the Vault secrets backend.
1. The Vault installation must have been initialized, unsealed and the KV2 and PKI secrets engines enabled and the Kubernetes Auth Method enabled.

A minimal valid installation of Vault must include the Agent Injector:
```yaml
injector:
  enabled: "true"
```

## Known Limitations

- TLS
  - `global.tls.serverAdditionalDNSSans` is not currently configurable and must be manually added to the server certificate in Vault.
  - `global.tls.serverAdditionalIPSans` is not currently configurable and must be manually added to the server certificate in Vault.
  - Mesh gateway is not currently supported.
- Multi-DC Federation is not currently supported.
- Certificate rotation is not currently supported, ensure the TTL for your certificates is sufficiently long. Should your certificates
expire it will be necessary to issue a `consul reload` on each server.
- CA rotation is not currently supported.

## Next Steps

To utilize Vault as a secrets backend with Consul it is necessary to add several configuration fields to the Vault installation
which bootstrap Vault Auth roles and Policies for Consul to use. For the supported Vault secrets please see the individual secret
guides and ensure to, when combining the secrets, append the Vault Policies to your Vault Kube Auth Roles via a comma separated value (i.e. `policies=gossip-policy,consul-ca,consul-server,custom-policy`).
Ex:
```shell-session
vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul server service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=gossip-policy,consul-ca,consul-server \
    ttl=1h
```


## Troubleshooting

The Vault integration with Consul on Kubernetes makes use of the Vault Agent Injectors. Kubernetes annotations are added to the
deployments of the Consul components which cause the Vault Agent Injector to be added as an init-container that will then attach
Vault secrets to Consul's pods at startup. Additionally the Vault Agent sidecar is added to the Consul component pods which
is responsible for synchronizing and reissuing secrets at runtime.
As a result of these additional sidecar containers the typical location for logging is expanded in the Consul components.

As a general rule the best way to troubleshoot startup issues for your Consul installation when using the Vault integration
is to establish if the `vault-agent-init` container has completed or not via `kubectl logs -f <your-consul-component> -c vault-agent-int`
and checking to see if the secrets have completed rendering.
* If the secrets are not properly rendered the underlying problem will be logged in `vault-agent-init` init-container
  and generally is related to the Vault Kube Auth Role not having the correct policies for the specific secret
  e.g. `global.secretsBackend.vault.consulServerRole` not having the correct policies for TLS.
* If the secrets are rendered and the `vault-agent-init` container has completed AND the Consul component has not become `Ready`,
  this generally points to an issue with Consul being unable to utilize the Vault secret. This can occur if, for example, the Vault Role
  created for the PKI engine does not have the correct `alt_names` or otherwise is not properly configured. The best logs for this
  circumstance are the Consul container logs: `kubectl logs -f <your-consul-component> -c consul`.

Commit message:

docs: clarification on Limitations for Vault Secrets backend (#11885)
* docs: clarification on Limitations for Vault Secrets backend

* address typo in CLI docs

* Update index.mdx

* Update index.mdx

website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/index.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault as Secrets Backend Overview
description: >-
  Using Vault as secrets backend for Consul on Kubernetes.
---

# Vault as Secrets Backend Overview

By default, Consul Helm chart will expect that any credentials it needs are stored as Kubernetes secrets.
As of Consul 1.11 and Consul Helm chart v0.38.0, we integrate more natively with Vault making it easier
to use Consul Helm chart with Vault as the secrets storage backend.

At a high level, there are two points of integration with Vault:
- **Gossip encryption** - The encryption key for gossip communication is stored in Vault.
- **TLS certificates and keys**:
  - **Consul Server TLS credentials** - TLS certificate and key for the Consul server is stored in Vault and issued from Vault.
  - **Service Mesh and Consul client TLS credentials** - Consul uses Vault as the provider for mTLS certificates and keys for the service mesh services
  and TLS certificates and keys for the Consul clients.

## Requirements

1. Vault 1.9+ and Vault-k8s 0.14+ is required.
1. Vault must be installed and accessible to the Consul on Kubernetes installation.
1. `global.tls.enableAutoencrypt=true` is required if TLS is enabled for the Consul installation when using the Vault secrets backend.
1. The Vault installation must have been initialized, unsealed and the KV2 and PKI secrets engines enabled and the Kubernetes Auth Method enabled.

A minimal valid installation of Vault must include the Agent Injector:
```yaml
injector:
  enabled: "true"
```

## Known Limitations

- TLS
  - `global.tls.serverAdditionalDNSSans` is not currently configurable and must be manually added to the server certificate in Vault.
  - `global.tls.serverAdditionalIPSans` is not currently configurable and must be manually added to the server certificate in Vault.
  - Mesh gateway is not currently supported.
- Multi-DC Federation is not currently supported.
- Certificate rotation for Server TLS certs is not currently supported through the Helm chart. Ensure the TTL for your Server TLS certificates are sufficiently long. Should your certificates expire it will be necessary to issue a `consul reload` on each server after issuing new Server TLS certs from Vault. 
- CA rotation is not currently supported through the Helm chart and must be manually rotated. 

## Next Steps

To utilize Vault as a secrets backend with Consul it is necessary to add several configuration fields to the Vault installation
which bootstrap Vault Auth roles and Policies for Consul to use. For the supported Vault secrets please see the individual secret
guides and ensure to, when combining the secrets, append the Vault Policies to your Vault Kube Auth Roles via a comma separated value (i.e. `policies=gossip-policy,consul-ca,consul-server,custom-policy`).
Ex:
```shell-session
vault write auth/kubernetes/role/consul-server \
    bound_service_account_names=<Consul server service account> \
    bound_service_account_namespaces=<Consul installation namespace> \
    policies=gossip-policy,consul-ca,consul-server \
    ttl=1h
```


## Troubleshooting

The Vault integration with Consul on Kubernetes makes use of the Vault Agent Injectors. Kubernetes annotations are added to the
deployments of the Consul components which cause the Vault Agent Injector to be added as an init-container that will then attach
Vault secrets to Consul's pods at startup. Additionally the Vault Agent sidecar is added to the Consul component pods which
is responsible for synchronizing and reissuing secrets at runtime.
As a result of these additional sidecar containers the typical location for logging is expanded in the Consul components.

As a general rule the best way to troubleshoot startup issues for your Consul installation when using the Vault integration
is to establish if the `vault-agent-init` container has completed or not via `kubectl logs -f <your-consul-component> -c vault-agent-int`
and checking to see if the secrets have completed rendering.
* If the secrets are not properly rendered the underlying problem will be logged in `vault-agent-init` init-container
  and generally is related to the Vault Kube Auth Role not having the correct policies for the specific secret
  e.g. `global.secretsBackend.vault.consulServerRole` not having the correct policies for TLS.
* If the secrets are rendered and the `vault-agent-init` container has completed AND the Consul component has not become `Ready`,
  this generally points to an issue with Consul being unable to utilize the Vault secret. This can occur if, for example, the Vault Role
  created for the PKI engine does not have the correct `alt_names` or otherwise is not properly configured. The best logs for this
  circumstance are the Consul container logs: `kubectl logs -f <your-consul-component> -c consul`.
