website/content/commands/acl/set-agent-token.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Set Agent Token'
---

# Consul ACL Set Agent Token

Command: `consul acl set-agent-token`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/agent/token/:type](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/agent#update-acl-tokens)

This command updates the ACL tokens currently in use by the agent. It can be used to introduce
ACL tokens to the agent for the first time, or to update tokens that were initially loaded from
the agent's configuration. Tokens are not persisted unless
[`acl.enable_token_persistence`](/docs/agent/options#acl_enable_token_persistence)
is `true`, so tokens will need to be updated again if that option is `false` and
the agent is restarted.

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl set-agent-token [options] TYPE TOKEN`

### Token Types

- `default` - The default token is the token that the agent will use for
  both internal agent operations and operations initiated by the HTTP
  and DNS interfaces when no specific token is provided. If not set the
  agent will use the anonymous token.

- `agent` - The token that the agent will use for internal agent operations.
  If not given then the default token is used for these operations.

- `recovery` - This sets the token that can be used to access the Agent APIs
  in the event that the ACL datacenter cannot be reached. In Consul versions
  prior to 1.11, this token type was called `master`.

- `replication` - This is the token that the agent will use for replication
  operations. This token will need to be configured with read access to
  whatever data is being replicated.

### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Set the `default` token:

```shell-session
$ consul acl set-agent-token default c4d0f8df-3aba-4ab6-a7a0-35b760dc29a1
```

Commit message:

Added ACL requirements for CLI commands

website/content/commands/acl/set-agent-token.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Set Agent Token'
---

# Consul ACL Set Agent Token

Command: `consul acl set-agent-token`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[PUT\] /v1/agent/token/:type](https://www.consul.io/api-docs/agent#update-acl-tokens)

This command updates the ACL tokens currently in use by the agent. It can be used to introduce
ACL tokens to the agent for the first time, or to update tokens that were initially loaded from
the agent's configuration. Tokens are not persisted unless
[`acl.enable_token_persistence`](/docs/agent/options#acl_enable_token_persistence)
is `true`, so tokens will need to be updated again if that option is `false` and
the agent is restarted.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/api#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/api/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/api/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:write`  |

## Usage

Usage: `consul acl set-agent-token [options] TYPE TOKEN`

### Token Types

- `default` - The default token is the token that the agent will use for
  both internal agent operations and operations initiated by the HTTP
  and DNS interfaces when no specific token is provided. If not set the
  agent will use the anonymous token.

- `agent` - The token that the agent will use for internal agent operations.
  If not given then the default token is used for these operations.

- `recovery` - This sets the token that can be used to access the Agent APIs
  in the event that the ACL datacenter cannot be reached. In Consul versions
  prior to 1.11, this token type was called `master`.

- `replication` - This is the token that the agent will use for replication
  operations. This token will need to be configured with read access to
  whatever data is being replicated.

### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

## Examples

Set the `default` token:

```shell-session
$ consul acl set-agent-token default c4d0f8df-3aba-4ab6-a7a0-35b760dc29a1
```
