website/content/commands/acl/translate-rules.mdx, before:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Translate Rules'
---

-> **Deprecated:** This command exists only as a convenience to make legacy ACL migration easier.
It will be removed in a future major release when support for the legacy ACL system is removed.

# Consul ACL Translate Rules

Command: `consul acl translate-rules`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/rules/translate/:accessor_id](/consul/api-docs/acl#translate-a-legacy-token-s-rules)

This command translates the legacy ACL rule syntax into the new syntax.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:read`   |

### Usage

Usage: `consul acl translate-rules [options] TRANSLATE`

#### Command Options

- `TRANSLATE` - The rules to translate. If `-` is used, then
  the rules will be read from stdin. If `@` is prefixed to
  the value then the value is considered to be a file and
  the rules will be read from that file.

- `-token-secret` - Specifies that what the `TRANSLATE` argument
  holds is not a rule set but rather the token secret ID of a
  legacy ACL token that holds the rule set.

- `-token-accessor` - Specifies that what the `TRANSLATE` argument
  holds is not a rule set but rather the token accessor ID of a
  legacy ACL token that holds the rule set.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

### Examples

Translate rules within a file:

```shell-session
$ consul acl translate-rules @rules.hcl
```

Translate rules from stdin:

```shell-session
$ consul acl translate-rules -
```

Translate rules from a string argument:

```shell-session
$ consul acl translate-rules 'key "" { policy = "write"}'
```

Translate rules for a legacy ACL token using its SecretID passed from stdin:

```shell-session
$ consul acl translate-rules --token-secret -
```

Translate rules for a legacy ACL token using its AccessorID:

```shell-session
$ consul acl translate-rules 429cd746-03d5-4bbb-a83a-18b164171c89
```

Commit message:

docs: CLI page descriptions for automated checker (#16056)
* ACL

* ACL

* Catalog

* consul config

* consul connect

* top-level updates

* consul intention

* consul kv

* consul namespace

* consul peering

* consul peering delete

* consul services

* consul snapshot

* consul tls

* consul acl auth-method

* acl binding-rule

* acl policy

* acl role

* acl token

* fix

* standardization

* Update website/content/commands/snapshot/save.mdx

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>

* consul debug
consul keyring

Co-authored-by: Bryce Kalow <bkalow@hashicorp.com>
Co-authored-by: Tu Nguyen <im2nguyen@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/commands/acl/translate-rules.mdx, after:

---
layout: commands
page_title: 'Commands: ACL Translate Rules'
description: >-
  The `consul acl translate-rules` command translates the legacy ACL rules into the new syntax when migrating from the legacy ACL system.
---

-> **Deprecated:** This command exists only as a convenience to make legacy ACL migration easier.
It will be removed in a future major release when support for the legacy ACL system is removed.

# Consul ACL Translate Rules

Command: `consul acl translate-rules`

Corresponding HTTP API Endpoint: [\[GET\] /v1/acl/rules/translate/:accessor_id](/consul/api-docs/acl#translate-a-legacy-token-s-rules)

This command translates the legacy ACL rule syntax into the new syntax.

The table below shows this command's [required ACLs](/consul/api-docs/api-structure#authentication). Configuration of
[blocking queries](/consul/api-docs/features/blocking) and [agent caching](/consul/api-docs/features/caching)
are not supported from commands, but may be from the corresponding HTTP endpoint.

| ACL Required |
| ------------ |
| `acl:read`   |

### Usage

Usage: `consul acl translate-rules [options] TRANSLATE`

#### Command Options

- `TRANSLATE` - The rules to translate. If `-` is used, then
  the rules will be read from stdin. If `@` is prefixed to
  the value then the value is considered to be a file and
  the rules will be read from that file.

- `-token-secret` - Specifies that what the `TRANSLATE` argument
  holds is not a rule set but rather the token secret ID of a
  legacy ACL token that holds the rule set.

- `-token-accessor` - Specifies that what the `TRANSLATE` argument
  holds is not a rule set but rather the token accessor ID of a
  legacy ACL token that holds the rule set.

#### API Options

@include 'http_api_options_client.mdx'

@include 'http_api_options_server.mdx'

### Examples

Translate rules within a file:

```shell-session
$ consul acl translate-rules @rules.hcl
```

Translate rules from stdin:

```shell-session
$ consul acl translate-rules -
```

Translate rules from a string argument:

```shell-session
$ consul acl translate-rules 'key "" { policy = "write"}'
```

Translate rules for a legacy ACL token using its SecretID passed from stdin:

```shell-session
$ consul acl translate-rules --token-secret -
```

Translate rules for a legacy ACL token using its AccessorID:

```shell-session
$ consul acl translate-rules 429cd746-03d5-4bbb-a83a-18b164171c89
```
