website/content/api-docs/coordinate.mdx, before:

---
layout: api
page_title: Coordinate - HTTP API
description: |-
  The /coordinate endpoints query for the network coordinates for nodes in the
  local datacenter as well as Consul servers in the local datacenter and remote
  datacenters.
---

# Coordinate HTTP Endpoint

The `/coordinate` endpoints query for the network coordinates for nodes in the
local datacenter as well as Consul servers in the local datacenter and remote
datacenters.

Please see the [Network Coordinates](/docs/architecture/coordinates) internals
guide for more information on how these coordinates are computed, and for
details on how to perform calculations with them.

## Read WAN Coordinates

This endpoint returns the WAN network coordinates for all Consul servers,
organized by datacenters. It serves data out of the server's local Serf data, so
its results may vary as requests are handled by different servers in the
cluster.

| Method | Path                      | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/coordinate/datacenters` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `none`       |

The corresponding CLI command is [`consul rtt -wan`](/commands/rtt#wan).

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/coordinate/datacenters
```

### Sample Response

```json
[
  {
    "Datacenter": "dc1",
    "AreaID": "WAN",
    "Coordinates": [
      {
        "Node": "agent-one",
        "Coord": {
          "Adjustment": 0,
          "Error": 1.5,
          "Height": 0,
          "Vec": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

In **Consul Enterprise**, this will include coordinates for user-added network
areas as well, as indicated by the `AreaID`. Coordinates are only compatible
within the same area.

## Read LAN Coordinates for all nodes

This endpoint returns the LAN network coordinates for all nodes in a given
datacenter.

@include 'http_api_results_filtered_by_acls.mdx'

| Method | Path                | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/coordinate/nodes` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| `YES`            | `all`             | `none`        | `node:read`  |

The corresponding CLI command is [`consul rtt`](/commands/rtt).

### Parameters

- `dc` `(string: "")` - Specifies the datacenter to query. This will default to
  the datacenter of the agent being queried. This is specified as part of the
  URL as a query parameter.
- `segment` `(string: "")` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - Specifies the segment to list members for.
  If left blank, this will query for the default segment when connecting to a server and
  the agent's own segment when connecting to a client (clients can only be part of one
  network segment). When querying a server, setting this to the special string `_all`
  will show members in all segments.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/coordinate/nodes
```

### Sample Response

```json
[
  {
    "Node": "agent-one",
    "Segment": "",
    "Coord": {
      "Adjustment": 0,
      "Error": 1.5,
      "Height": 0,
      "Vec": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
    }
  }
]
```

In **Consul Enterprise**, this may include multiple coordinates for the same node,
each marked with a different `Segment`. Coordinates are only compatible within the same
segment.

## Read LAN Coordinates for a node

This endpoint returns the LAN network coordinates for the given node.

| Method | Path                     | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------------ | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/coordinate/node/:node` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| `YES`            | `all`             | `none`        | `node:read`  |

### Parameters

- `dc` `(string: "")` - Specifies the datacenter to query. This will default to
  the datacenter of the agent being queried. This is specified as part of the
  URL as a query parameter.
- `segment` `(string: "")` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - Specifies the segment to list members for.
  If left blank, this will query for the default segment when connecting to a server and
  the agent's own segment when connecting to a client (clients can only be part of one
  network segment). When querying a server, setting this to the special string `_all`
  will show members in all segments.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/coordinate/node/agent-one
```

### Sample Response

```json
[
  {
    "Node": "agent-one",
    "Segment": "",
    "Coord": {
      "Adjustment": 0,
      "Error": 1.5,
      "Height": 0,
      "Vec": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
    }
  }
]
```

In **Consul Enterprise**, this may include multiple coordinates for the same node,
each marked with a different `Segment`. Coordinates are only compatible within the same
segment.

## Update LAN Coordinates for a node

This endpoint updates the LAN network coordinates for a node in a given
datacenter.

| Method | Path                 | Produces           |
| ------ | -------------------- | ------------------ |
| `PUT`  | `/coordinate/update` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `node:write` |

### Parameters

- `dc` `(string: "")` - Specifies the datacenter to query. This will default to
  the datacenter of the agent being queried. This is specified as part of the
  URL as a query parameter.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "Node": "agent-one",
  "Segment": "",
  "Coord": {
    "Adjustment": 0,
    "Error": 1.5,
    "Height": 0,
    "Vec": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
  }
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request PUT \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/coordinate/update
```

Commit message:

docs: split HTTP API params into sections by type
Path parameters, query parameters, and request body parameters are now shown in
separate sections rather than combined into one general parameters section.
This makes it much easier to understand quickly where a parameter should be
provided.

website/content/api-docs/coordinate.mdx, after:

---
layout: api
page_title: Coordinate - HTTP API
description: |-
  The /coordinate endpoints query for the network coordinates for nodes in the
  local datacenter as well as Consul servers in the local datacenter and remote
  datacenters.
---

# Coordinate HTTP Endpoint

The `/coordinate` endpoints query for the network coordinates for nodes in the
local datacenter as well as Consul servers in the local datacenter and remote
datacenters.

Please see the [Network Coordinates](/docs/architecture/coordinates) internals
guide for more information on how these coordinates are computed, and for
details on how to perform calculations with them.

## Read WAN Coordinates

This endpoint returns the WAN network coordinates for all Consul servers,
organized by datacenters. It serves data out of the server's local Serf data, so
its results may vary as requests are handled by different servers in the
cluster.

| Method | Path                      | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/coordinate/datacenters` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `none`       |

The corresponding CLI command is [`consul rtt -wan`](/commands/rtt#wan).

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/coordinate/datacenters
```

### Sample Response

```json
[
  {
    "Datacenter": "dc1",
    "AreaID": "WAN",
    "Coordinates": [
      {
        "Node": "agent-one",
        "Coord": {
          "Adjustment": 0,
          "Error": 1.5,
          "Height": 0,
          "Vec": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
]
```

In **Consul Enterprise**, this will include coordinates for user-added network
areas as well, as indicated by the `AreaID`. Coordinates are only compatible
within the same area.

## Read LAN Coordinates for all nodes

This endpoint returns the LAN network coordinates for all nodes in a given
datacenter.

@include 'http_api_results_filtered_by_acls.mdx'

| Method | Path                | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/coordinate/nodes` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| `YES`            | `all`             | `none`        | `node:read`  |

The corresponding CLI command is [`consul rtt`](/commands/rtt).

### Query Parameters

- `dc` `(string: "")` - Specifies the datacenter to query. This will default to
  the datacenter of the agent being queried.

- `segment` `(string: "")` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - Specifies the segment to list members for.
  If left blank, this will query for the default segment when connecting to a server and
  the agent's own segment when connecting to a client (clients can only be part of one
  network segment). When querying a server, setting this to the special string `_all`
  will show members in all segments.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/coordinate/nodes
```

### Sample Response

```json
[
  {
    "Node": "agent-one",
    "Segment": "",
    "Coord": {
      "Adjustment": 0,
      "Error": 1.5,
      "Height": 0,
      "Vec": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
    }
  }
]
```

In **Consul Enterprise**, this may include multiple coordinates for the same node,
each marked with a different `Segment`. Coordinates are only compatible within the same
segment.

## Read LAN Coordinates for a node

This endpoint returns the LAN network coordinates for the given node.

| Method | Path                          | Produces           |
| ------ | ----------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/coordinate/node/:node_name` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| `YES`            | `all`             | `none`        | `node:read`  |

### Path Parameters

- `node_name` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the name of the node to return LAN network coordinates for.

### Query Parameters

- `dc` `(string: "")` - Specifies the datacenter to query. This will default to
  the datacenter of the agent being queried.

- `segment` `(string: "")` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - Specifies the segment to list members for.
  If left blank, this will query for the default segment when connecting to a server and
  the agent's own segment when connecting to a client (clients can only be part of one
  network segment). When querying a server, setting this to the special string `_all`
  will show members in all segments.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/coordinate/node/agent-one
```

### Sample Response

```json
[
  {
    "Node": "agent-one",
    "Segment": "",
    "Coord": {
      "Adjustment": 0,
      "Error": 1.5,
      "Height": 0,
      "Vec": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
    }
  }
]
```

In **Consul Enterprise**, this may include multiple coordinates for the same node,
each marked with a different `Segment`. Coordinates are only compatible within the same
segment.

## Update LAN Coordinates for a node

This endpoint updates the LAN network coordinates for a node in a given
datacenter.

| Method | Path                 | Produces           |
| ------ | -------------------- | ------------------ |
| `PUT`  | `/coordinate/update` | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ------------ |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `node:write` |

### Query Parameters

- `dc` `(string: "")` - Specifies the datacenter to query. This will default to
  the datacenter of the agent being queried.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "Node": "agent-one",
  "Segment": "",
  "Coord": {
    "Adjustment": 0,
    "Error": 1.5,
    "Height": 0,
    "Vec": [0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
  }
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl \
    --request PUT \
    --data @payload.json \
    http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/coordinate/update
```
