website/content/api-docs/peering.mdx, before:

---
layout: api
page_title: Cluster Peering - HTTP API
description: The /peering endpoints allow for managing cluster peerings.
---

# Cluster Peering - HTTP API

~> **Cluster peering is currently in technical preview:** Functionality associated
with cluster peering is subject to change. You should never use the technical
preview release in secure environments or production scenarios. Features in
technical preview may have performance issues, scaling issues, and limited support.

The functionality described here is available only in
[Consul](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/consul/) version 1.13.0 and later.

## Generate a Peering Token

This endpoint generates a peering token.

| Method  | Path                 | Produces           |
| ------- | -------------------- | ------------------ |
| `POST`  | `/peering/token`     | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required     |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `peering:write`  |

### JSON Request Body Schema

- `PeerName` `(string: <required>)` - The name assigned to the peer cluster.
  The `PeerName` is used to reference the peer cluster in service discovery queries
  and configuration entries such as `service-intentions`. This field must be a
  valid DNS hostname label.

- `Partition` `(string: "")` - <EnterpriseAlert inline /> The admin partition that the
  peering token is generated from. Uses `default` when not specified.

- `ServerExternalAddresses` `([]string: <optional>)` - A list of addresses to put
into the generated token. Addresses are the form of `{host or IP}:port`.
You can specify one or more load balancers or external IPs that route external traffic to this cluster's Consul servers.

- `Meta` `(map<string|string>: <optional>)` - Specifies KV metadata to associate with
  the peering. This parameter is not required and does not directly impact the cluster
  peering process.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "PeerName": "cluster-02",
  "Meta": {
    "env": "production"
  }
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl --request POST \
   --header "X-Consul-Token: 5cdcae6c-0cce-4210-86fe-5dff3b984a6e" \
   --data @payload.json \
   http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/token
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
    "PeeringToken": "eyJDQSI6bnVsbCwiU2V..."
}
```

## Establish a Peering Connection

This endpoint establishes a peering connection with a given peering token.

| Method  | Path                 | Produces           |
| ------- | -------------------- | ------------------ |
| `POST`  | `/peering/establish` | `application/json` |

This endpoint returns no data. Success or failure is indicated by the status
code returned.

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required     |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `peering:write`  |

### JSON Request Body Schema

- `PeerName` `(string: <required>)` - The name assigned to the peer cluster.
  The `PeerName` is used to reference the peer cluster in service discovery queries
  and configuration entries such as `service-intentions`. This field must be a
  valid DNS hostname label.

- `Partition` `(string: "")` - <EnterpriseAlert inline /> The admin partition
  that peers to the cluster that generated the peering token. Uses `default`
  when not specified.

- `PeeringToken` `(string: <required>)` - The peering token fetched from the
  peer cluster.

- `Meta` `(map<string|string>: <optional>)` - Specifies KV metadata to associate with
  the peering. This parameter is not required and does not directly impact the cluster
  peering process.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "PeerName": "cluster-01",
  "PeeringToken": "eyJDQSI6bnVsbCwiU2V...",
  "Meta": {
    "env": "production"
  }
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl --request POST \
   --header "X-Consul-Token: 5cdcae6c-0cce-4210-86fe-5dff3b984a6e" \
   --data @payload.json \
   http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/establish
```

### Sample Response

```json
{}
```

## Read a Peering Connection

This endpoint returns information about a peering connection for the specified peer name.

| Method | Path               | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/peering/:name`   | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required   |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | -------------- |
| `NO`             | `consistent`      | `none`        | `peering:read` |

### Path Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the peering to read.

### Query Parameters

- `partition` `(string: "")` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - Specifies the partition of the peering
  to read. If not specified will default to `default`.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl --header "X-Consul-Token: b23b3cad-5ea1-4413-919e-c76884b9ad60" \
   http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/cluster-02
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
    "ID": "462c45e8-018e-f19d-85eb-1fc1bcc2ef12",
    "Name": "cluster-02",
    "State": "INITIAL",
    "PeerID": "e83a315c-027e-bcb1-7c0c-a46650904a05",
    "PeerServerName": "server.dc1.consul",
    "PeerServerAddresses": [
        "10.0.0.1:8300"
    ],
    "CreateIndex": 89,
    "ModifyIndex": 89
}
```

## Delete a Peering Connection

Call this endpoint to delete a peering connection. Consul deletes all data imported from the peer in the background. The peering connection is removed after all associated data has been deleted.
Operators can still read the peering connections while the data is being removed. A `DeletedAt`
field will be populated with the timestamp of when the peering was marked for deletion.

| Method   | Path               | Produces |
| -------- | ------------------ | -------- |
| `DELETE` | `/peering/:name`   | N/A      |

This endpoint returns no data. Success or failure is indicated by the status
code returned.

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required     |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `peering:write`  |

### Path Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the name of the peering to delete.
- `partition` `(string: "")` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - Specifies the partition of the peering
  to delete. Uses `default` when not specified.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl --request DELETE \
   --header "X-Consul-Token: b23b3cad-5ea1-4413-919e-c76884b9ad60" \
   http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/cluster-02
```

### Sample Read Output After Deletion Prior to Removal

```json
{
    "ID": "462c45e8-018e-f19d-85eb-1fc1bcc2ef12",
    "Name": "cluster-02",
    "State": "TERMINATED",
    "PeerID": "e83a315c-027e-bcb1-7c0c-a46650904a05",
    "PeerServerName": "server.dc1.consul",
    "PeerServerAddresses": [
        "10.0.0.1:8300"
    ],
    "DeletedAt": "2022-12-14T23:00:00Z",
    "CreateIndex": 89,
    "ModifyIndex": 89
}
```

## List all Peerings

This endpoint lists all the peerings.

@include 'http_api_results_filtered_by_acls.mdx'

| Method | Path          | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/peerings`   | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required   |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | -------------- |
| `NO`             | `consistent`      | `none`        | `peering:read` |

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl --header "X-Consul-Token: 0137db51-5895-4c25-b6cd-d9ed992f4a52" \
   http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peerings
```

### Sample Response

```json
[
    {
        "ID": "462c45e8-018e-f19d-85eb-1fc1bcc2ef12",
        "Name": "cluster-02",
        "State": "ACTIVE",
        "Partition": "default",
        "PeerID": "e83a315c-027e-bcb1-7c0c-a46650904a05",
        "PeerServerName": "server.dc1.consul",
        "PeerServerAddresses": [
            "10.0.0.1:8300"
        ],
        "CreateIndex": 89,
        "ModifyIndex": 89
    },
    {
        "ID": "1460ada9-26d2-f30d-3359-2968aa7dc47d",
        "Name": "cluster-03",
        "State": "INITIAL",
        "Partition": "default",
        "Meta": {
            "env": "production"
        },
        "CreateIndex": 109,
        "ModifyIndex": 119
    }
]
```

Commit message:

doc(peering): missing network requirement for peering and the partiti… (#14677)
* doc(peering): missing network requirement for peering and the partition parameter in the list API

* Delete API: move partition from path parameter to query parameter

website/content/api-docs/peering.mdx, after:

---
layout: api
page_title: Cluster Peering - HTTP API
description: The /peering endpoints allow for managing cluster peerings.
---

# Cluster Peering - HTTP API

~> **Cluster peering is currently in technical preview:** Functionality associated
with cluster peering is subject to change. You should never use the technical
preview release in secure environments or production scenarios. Features in
technical preview may have performance issues, scaling issues, and limited support.

The functionality described here is available only in
[Consul](https://www.hashicorp.com/products/consul/) version 1.13.0 and later.

## Generate a Peering Token

This endpoint generates a peering token.

| Method  | Path                 | Produces           |
| ------- | -------------------- | ------------------ |
| `POST`  | `/peering/token`     | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required     |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `peering:write`  |

### JSON Request Body Schema

- `PeerName` `(string: <required>)` - The name assigned to the peer cluster.
  The `PeerName` is used to reference the peer cluster in service discovery queries
  and configuration entries such as `service-intentions`. This field must be a
  valid DNS hostname label.

- `Partition` `(string: "")` - <EnterpriseAlert inline /> The admin partition that the
  peering token is generated from. Uses `default` when not specified.

- `ServerExternalAddresses` `([]string: <optional>)` - A list of addresses to put
into the generated token. Addresses are the form of `{host or IP}:port`.
You can specify one or more load balancers or external IPs that route external traffic to this cluster's Consul servers.

- `Meta` `(map<string|string>: <optional>)` - Specifies KV metadata to associate with
  the peering. This parameter is not required and does not directly impact the cluster
  peering process.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "PeerName": "cluster-02",
  "Meta": {
    "env": "production"
  }
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl --request POST \
   --header "X-Consul-Token: 5cdcae6c-0cce-4210-86fe-5dff3b984a6e" \
   --data @payload.json \
   http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/token
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
    "PeeringToken": "eyJDQSI6bnVsbCwiU2V..."
}
```

## Establish a Peering Connection

This endpoint establishes a peering connection with a given peering token.

| Method  | Path                 | Produces           |
| ------- | -------------------- | ------------------ |
| `POST`  | `/peering/establish` | `application/json` |

This endpoint returns no data. Success or failure is indicated by the status
code returned.

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required     |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `peering:write`  |

### JSON Request Body Schema

- `PeerName` `(string: <required>)` - The name assigned to the peer cluster.
  The `PeerName` is used to reference the peer cluster in service discovery queries
  and configuration entries such as `service-intentions`. This field must be a
  valid DNS hostname label.

- `Partition` `(string: "")` - <EnterpriseAlert inline /> The admin partition
  that peers to the cluster that generated the peering token. Uses `default`
  when not specified.

- `PeeringToken` `(string: <required>)` - The peering token fetched from the
  peer cluster.

- `Meta` `(map<string|string>: <optional>)` - Specifies KV metadata to associate with
  the peering. This parameter is not required and does not directly impact the cluster
  peering process.

### Sample Payload

```json
{
  "PeerName": "cluster-01",
  "PeeringToken": "eyJDQSI6bnVsbCwiU2V...",
  "Meta": {
    "env": "production"
  }
}
```

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl --request POST \
   --header "X-Consul-Token: 5cdcae6c-0cce-4210-86fe-5dff3b984a6e" \
   --data @payload.json \
   http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/establish
```

### Sample Response

```json
{}
```

## Read a Peering Connection

This endpoint returns information about a peering connection for the specified peer name.

| Method | Path               | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------------ | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/peering/:name`   | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required   |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | -------------- |
| `NO`             | `consistent`      | `none`        | `peering:read` |

### Path Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the peering to read.

### Query Parameters

- `partition` `(string: "")` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - Specifies the partition of the peering
  to read. If not specified will default to `default`.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl --header "X-Consul-Token: b23b3cad-5ea1-4413-919e-c76884b9ad60" \
   http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/cluster-02
```

### Sample Response

```json
{
    "ID": "462c45e8-018e-f19d-85eb-1fc1bcc2ef12",
    "Name": "cluster-02",
    "State": "INITIAL",
    "PeerID": "e83a315c-027e-bcb1-7c0c-a46650904a05",
    "PeerServerName": "server.dc1.consul",
    "PeerServerAddresses": [
        "10.0.0.1:8300"
    ],
    "CreateIndex": 89,
    "ModifyIndex": 89
}
```

## Delete a Peering Connection

Call this endpoint to delete a peering connection. Consul deletes all data imported from the peer in the background. The peering connection is removed after all associated data has been deleted.
Operators can still read the peering connections while the data is being removed. A `DeletedAt`
field will be populated with the timestamp of when the peering was marked for deletion.

| Method   | Path               | Produces |
| -------- | ------------------ | -------- |
| `DELETE` | `/peering/:name`   | N/A      |

This endpoint returns no data. Success or failure is indicated by the status
code returned.

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required     |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| `NO`             | `none`            | `none`        | `peering:write`  |

### Path Parameters

- `name` `(string: <required>)` - Specifies the name of the peering to delete.

### Query Parameters

- `partition` `(string: "")` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - Specifies the partition of the peerings
  to delete. If not specified will default to `default`.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl --request DELETE \
   --header "X-Consul-Token: b23b3cad-5ea1-4413-919e-c76884b9ad60" \
   http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peering/cluster-02
```

### Sample Read Output After Deletion Prior to Removal

```json
{
    "ID": "462c45e8-018e-f19d-85eb-1fc1bcc2ef12",
    "Name": "cluster-02",
    "State": "TERMINATED",
    "PeerID": "e83a315c-027e-bcb1-7c0c-a46650904a05",
    "PeerServerName": "server.dc1.consul",
    "PeerServerAddresses": [
        "10.0.0.1:8300"
    ],
    "DeletedAt": "2022-12-14T23:00:00Z",
    "CreateIndex": 89,
    "ModifyIndex": 89
}
```

## List all Peerings

This endpoint lists all the peerings.

@include 'http_api_results_filtered_by_acls.mdx'

| Method | Path          | Produces           |
| ------ | ------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/peerings`   | `application/json` |

The table below shows this endpoint's support for
[blocking queries](/api-docs/features/blocking),
[consistency modes](/api-docs/features/consistency),
[agent caching](/api-docs/features/caching), and
[required ACLs](/api-docs#authentication).

| Blocking Queries | Consistency Modes | Agent Caching | ACL Required   |
| ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------- | -------------- |
| `NO`             | `consistent`      | `none`        | `peering:read` |

### Query Parameters

- `partition` `(string: "")` <EnterpriseAlert inline /> - Specifies the partition of the peerings
  to list. If not specified will default to `default`.

### Sample Request

```shell-session
$ curl --header "X-Consul-Token: 0137db51-5895-4c25-b6cd-d9ed992f4a52" \
   http://127.0.0.1:8500/v1/peerings
```

### Sample Response

```json
[
    {
        "ID": "462c45e8-018e-f19d-85eb-1fc1bcc2ef12",
        "Name": "cluster-02",
        "State": "ACTIVE",
        "Partition": "default",
        "PeerID": "e83a315c-027e-bcb1-7c0c-a46650904a05",
        "PeerServerName": "server.dc1.consul",
        "PeerServerAddresses": [
            "10.0.0.1:8300"
        ],
        "CreateIndex": 89,
        "ModifyIndex": 89
    },
    {
        "ID": "1460ada9-26d2-f30d-3359-2968aa7dc47d",
        "Name": "cluster-03",
        "State": "INITIAL",
        "Partition": "default",
        "Meta": {
            "env": "production"
        },
        "CreateIndex": 109,
        "ModifyIndex": 119
    }
]
```
