website/content/docs/k8s/deployment-configurations/single-dc-multi-k8s.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Deploy Single Consul Datacenter Across Multiple K8s Clusters
description: >-
  A single Consul datacenter can run across multiple Kubernetes pods in a flat network as long as only one pod has server agents. Learn how to configure the Helm chart, deploy pods in sequence, and verify your service mesh.
---

# Deploy Single Consul Datacenter Across Multiple Kubernetes Clusters

~> **Note:** When running Consul across multiple Kubernetes clusters, we recommend using [admin partitions](/consul/docs/enterprise/admin-partitions) for production environments. This Consul Enterprise feature allows you to accommodate multiple tenants without resource collisions when administering a cluster at scale. Admin partitions also enable you to run Consul on Kubernetes clusters across a non-flat network.

This page describes deploying a single Consul datacenter in multiple Kubernetes clusters,
with servers running in one cluster and only Consul on Kubernetes components in the rest of the clusters.
This example uses two Kubernetes clusters, but this approach could be extended to using more than two.

## Requirements

* Consul-Helm version `v1.0.0` or higher
* Either the Helm release name for each Kubernetes cluster must be unique, or `global.name` for each Kubernetes cluster must be unique to prevent collisions of ACL resources with the same prefix.

## Prepare Helm release name ahead of installs

The Helm release name must be unique for each Kubernetes cluster.
The Helm chart uses the Helm release name as a prefix for the
ACL resources that it creates, such as tokens and auth methods. If the names of the Helm releases are identical, or if `global.name` for each cluster is identical, subsequent Consul on Kubernetes clusters will overwrite existing ACL resources and cause the clusters to fail.

Before proceeding with installation, prepare the Helm release names as environment variables for both the server and client install.

```shell-session
  $ export HELM_RELEASE_SERVER=server
  $ export HELM_RELEASE_CONSUL=consul
  ...
  $ export HELM_RELEASE_CONSUL2=consul2
```

## Deploying Consul servers in the first cluster

First, deploy the first cluster with Consul servers according to the following example Helm configuration.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="cluster1-values.yaml">

```yaml
global:
  datacenter: dc1
  tls:
    enabled: true
    enableAutoEncrypt: true
  acls:
    manageSystemACLs: true
  gossipEncryption:
    secretName: consul-gossip-encryption-key
    secretKey: key
ui:
  service:
    type: NodePort
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note that this will deploy a secure configuration with gossip encryption,
TLS for all components and ACLs. In addition, this will enable the Consul Service Mesh and the controller for CRDs
that can be used later to verify the connectivity of services across clusters.

The UI's service type is set to be `NodePort`.
This is needed to connect to servers from another cluster without using the pod IPs of the servers,
which are likely going to change.

To deploy, first generate the Gossip encryption key and save it as a Kubernetes secret.

```shell-session
$ kubectl create secret generic consul-gossip-encryption-key --from-literal=key=$(consul keygen)
```

Now install Consul cluster with Helm:
```shell-session
$ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER} --values cluster1-values.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

Once the installation finishes and all components are running and ready, the following information needs to be extracted (using the below command) and applied to the second Kubernetes cluster.
 * The CA certificate generated during installation
 * The ACL bootstrap token generated during installation

```shell-session
$ kubectl get secret ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-ca-cert ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-bootstrap-acl-token --output yaml > cluster1-credentials.yaml
```

## Deploying Consul Kubernetes in the second cluster
~> **Note:** If multiple Kubernetes clusters will be joined to the Consul Datacenter, then the following instructions will need to be repeated for each additional Kubernetes cluster.

Switch to the second Kubernetes cluster where Consul clients will be deployed
that will join the first Consul cluster.

```shell-session
$ kubectl config use-context <K8S_CONTEXT_NAME>
```

First, apply the credentials extracted from the first cluster to the second cluster:

```shell-session
$ kubectl apply --filename cluster1-credentials.yaml
```
To deploy in the second cluster, the following example Helm configuration will be used:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="cluster2-values.yaml" highlight="6-11,15-17">

```yaml
global:
  enabled: false
  datacenter: dc1
  acls:
    manageSystemACLs: true
    bootstrapToken:
      secretName: cluster1-consul-bootstrap-acl-token
      secretKey: token
  tls:
    enabled: true
    caCert:
      secretName: cluster1-consul-ca-cert
      secretKey: tls.crt
externalServers:
  enabled: true
  # This should be any node IP of the first k8s cluster or the load balancer IP if using LoadBalancer service type for the UI.
  hosts: ["10.0.0.4"]
  # The node port of the UI's NodePort service or the load balancer port.
  httpsPort: 31557
  tlsServerName: server.dc1.consul
  # The address of the kube API server of this Kubernetes cluster
  k8sAuthMethodHost: https://kubernetes.example.com:443
connectInject:
  enabled: true
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note the references to the secrets extracted and applied from the first cluster in ACL and TLS configuration.

The `externalServers.hosts` and `externalServers.httpsPort`
refer to the IP and port of the UI's NodePort service deployed in the first cluster.
Set the `externalServers.hosts` to any Node IP of the first cluster,
which can be seen by running `kubectl get nodes --output wide`.
Set `externalServers.httpsPort` to the `nodePort` of the `cluster1-consul-ui` service.
In our example, the port is `31557`.

```shell-session
$ kubectl get service cluster1-consul-ui --context cluster1
NAME                 TYPE       CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)         AGE
cluster1-consul-ui   NodePort   10.0.240.80   <none>        443:31557/TCP   40h
```

Set the `externalServer.tlsServerName` to `server.dc1.consul`. This the DNS SAN
(Subject Alternative Name) that is present in the Consul server's certificate.
This is required because the connection to the Consul servers uses the node IP,
but that IP isn't present in the server's certificate.
To make sure that the hostname verification succeeds during the TLS handshake, set the TLS
server name to a DNS name that *is* present in the certificate.

Next, set `externalServers.k8sAuthMethodHost` to the address of the second Kubernetes API server.
This should be the address that is reachable from the first cluster, so it cannot be the internal DNS
available in each Kubernetes cluster. Consul needs it so that `consul login` with the Kubernetes auth method will work
from the second cluster.
More specifically, the Consul server will need to perform the verification of the Kubernetes service account
whenever `consul login` is called, and to verify service accounts from the second cluster, it needs to
reach the Kubernetes API in that cluster.
The easiest way to get it is from the `kubeconfig` by running `kubectl config view` and grabbing
the value of `cluster.server` for the second cluster.

Now, proceed with the installation of the second cluster.

```shell-session
$ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_CONSUL} --values cluster2-values.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

## Verifying the Consul Service Mesh works

~> When Transparent proxy is enabled, services in one Kubernetes cluster that need to communicate with a service in another Kubernetes cluster must have an explicit upstream configured through the ["consul.hashicorp.com/connect-service-upstreams"](/consul/docs/k8s/annotations-and-labels#consul-hashicorp-com-connect-service-upstreams) annotation.

Now that the Consul cluster spanning across multiple k8s clusters is up and running, deploy two services in separate k8s clusters and verify that they can connect to each other.

First, deploy `static-server` service in the first cluster:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="static-server.yaml">

```yaml
---
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceIntentions
metadata:
  name: static-server
spec:
  destination:
    name: static-server
  sources:
    - name: static-client
      action: allow
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: static-server
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  selector:
    app: static-server
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 8080
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: static-server
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: static-server
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: static-server
  template:
    metadata:
      name: static-server
      labels:
        app: static-server
      annotations:
        "consul.hashicorp.com/connect-inject": "true"
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: static-server
          image: hashicorp/http-echo:latest
          args:
            - -text="hello world"
            - -listen=:8080
          ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
              name: http
      serviceAccountName: static-server
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note that defining a Service intention is required so that our services are allowed to talk to each other.

Next, deploy `static-client` in the second cluster with the following configuration:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="static-client.yaml">

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: static-client
spec:
  selector:
    app: static-client
  ports:
    - port: 80
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: static-client
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: static-client
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: static-client
  template:
    metadata:
      name: static-client
      labels:
        app: static-client
      annotations:
        "consul.hashicorp.com/connect-inject": "true"
        "consul.hashicorp.com/connect-service-upstreams": "static-server:1234"
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: static-client
          image: curlimages/curl:latest
          command: [ "/bin/sh", "-c", "--" ]
          args: [ "while true; do sleep 30; done;" ]
      serviceAccountName: static-client
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Once both services are up and running, try connecting to the `static-server` from `static-client`:

```shell-session
$ kubectl exec deploy/static-client -- curl --silent localhost:1234
"hello world"
```

A successful installation would return `hello world` for the above curl command output.

Commit message:

First cluster grpc service should be NodePort for the second cluster to connect (#16430)
* First cluster grpc service should be NodePort

This is based on the issue opened here https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-k8s/issues/1903

If you follow the documentation https://developer.hashicorp.com/consul/docs/k8s/deployment-configurations/single-dc-multi-k8s exactly as it is, the first cluster will only create the consul UI service on NodePort but not the rest of the services (including for grpc). By default, from the helm chart, they are created as headless services by setting clusterIP None. This will cause an issue for the second cluster to discover consul server on the first cluster over gRPC as it cannot simply cannot through gRPC default port 8502 and it ends up in an error as shown in the issue https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-k8s/issues/1903

As a solution, the grpc service should be exposed using NodePort (or LoadBalancer). I added those changes required in both cluster1-values.yaml and cluster2-values.yaml, and also a description for those changes for the normal users to understand. Kindly review and I hope this PR will be accepted.

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/deployment-configurations/single-dc-multi-k8s.mdx

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/deployment-configurations/single-dc-multi-k8s.mdx

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update website/content/docs/k8s/deployment-configurations/single-dc-multi-k8s.mdx

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: trujillo-adam <47586768+trujillo-adam@users.noreply.github.com>

website/content/docs/k8s/deployment-configurations/single-dc-multi-k8s.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Deploy Single Consul Datacenter Across Multiple K8s Clusters
description: >-
  A single Consul datacenter can run across multiple Kubernetes pods in a flat network as long as only one pod has server agents. Learn how to configure the Helm chart, deploy pods in sequence, and verify your service mesh.
---

# Deploy Single Consul Datacenter Across Multiple Kubernetes Clusters

~> **Note:** When running Consul across multiple Kubernetes clusters, we recommend using [admin partitions](/consul/docs/enterprise/admin-partitions) for production environments. This Consul Enterprise feature allows you to accommodate multiple tenants without resource collisions when administering a cluster at scale. Admin partitions also enable you to run Consul on Kubernetes clusters across a non-flat network.

This page describes deploying a single Consul datacenter in multiple Kubernetes clusters,
with servers running in one cluster and only Consul on Kubernetes components in the rest of the clusters.
This example uses two Kubernetes clusters, but this approach could be extended to using more than two.

## Requirements

* Consul-Helm version `v1.0.0` or higher
* Either the Helm release name for each Kubernetes cluster must be unique, or `global.name` for each Kubernetes cluster must be unique to prevent collisions of ACL resources with the same prefix.

## Prepare Helm release name ahead of installs

The Helm release name must be unique for each Kubernetes cluster.
The Helm chart uses the Helm release name as a prefix for the
ACL resources that it creates, such as tokens and auth methods. If the names of the Helm releases are identical, or if `global.name` for each cluster is identical, subsequent Consul on Kubernetes clusters will overwrite existing ACL resources and cause the clusters to fail.

Before proceeding with installation, prepare the Helm release names as environment variables for both the server and client install.

```shell-session
  $ export HELM_RELEASE_SERVER=server
  $ export HELM_RELEASE_CONSUL=consul
  ...
  $ export HELM_RELEASE_CONSUL2=consul2
```

## Deploying Consul servers in the first cluster

First, deploy the first cluster with Consul servers according to the following example Helm configuration.

<CodeBlockConfig filename="cluster1-values.yaml">

```yaml
global:
  datacenter: dc1
  tls:
    enabled: true
    enableAutoEncrypt: true
  acls:
    manageSystemACLs: true
  gossipEncryption:
    secretName: consul-gossip-encryption-key
    secretKey: key
server:
  exposeService:
    enabled: true
    type: NodePort
    nodePort:
      ## all are random nodePorts and you can set your own
      http: 30010
      https: 30011
      serf: 30012
      rpc: 30013
      grpc: 30014
ui:
  service:
    type: NodePort
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note that this will deploy a secure configuration with gossip encryption,
TLS for all components and ACLs. In addition, this will enable the Consul Service Mesh and the controller for CRDs
that can be used later to verify the connectivity of services across clusters.

The UI's service type is set to be `NodePort`.
This is needed to connect to servers from another cluster without using the pod IPs of the servers,
which are likely going to change.

Other services are exposed as `NodePort` services and configured with random port numbers. In this example, the `grpc` port is set to `30014`, which enables services to discover Consul servers using gRPC when connecting from another cluster.

To deploy, first generate the Gossip encryption key and save it as a Kubernetes secret.

```shell-session
$ kubectl create secret generic consul-gossip-encryption-key --from-literal=key=$(consul keygen)
```

Now install Consul cluster with Helm:
```shell-session
$ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER} --values cluster1-values.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

Once the installation finishes and all components are running and ready, the following information needs to be extracted (using the below command) and applied to the second Kubernetes cluster.
 * The CA certificate generated during installation
 * The ACL bootstrap token generated during installation

```shell-session
$ kubectl get secret ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-ca-cert ${HELM_RELEASE_SERVER}-consul-bootstrap-acl-token --output yaml > cluster1-credentials.yaml
```

## Deploying Consul Kubernetes in the second cluster
~> **Note:** If multiple Kubernetes clusters will be joined to the Consul Datacenter, then the following instructions will need to be repeated for each additional Kubernetes cluster.

Switch to the second Kubernetes cluster where Consul clients will be deployed
that will join the first Consul cluster.

```shell-session
$ kubectl config use-context <K8S_CONTEXT_NAME>
```

First, apply the credentials extracted from the first cluster to the second cluster:

```shell-session
$ kubectl apply --filename cluster1-credentials.yaml
```
To deploy in the second cluster, the following example Helm configuration will be used:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="cluster2-values.yaml" highlight="6-11,15-17">

```yaml
global:
  enabled: false
  datacenter: dc1
  acls:
    manageSystemACLs: true
    bootstrapToken:
      secretName: cluster1-consul-bootstrap-acl-token
      secretKey: token
  tls:
    enabled: true
    caCert:
      secretName: cluster1-consul-ca-cert
      secretKey: tls.crt
externalServers:
  enabled: true
  # This should be any node IP of the first k8s cluster or the load balancer IP if using LoadBalancer service type for the UI.
  hosts: ["10.0.0.4"]
  # The node port of the UI's NodePort service or the load balancer port.
  httpsPort: 31557
  # Matches the gRPC port of the Consul servers in the first cluster.
  grpcPort: 30014
  tlsServerName: server.dc1.consul
  # The address of the kube API server of this Kubernetes cluster
  k8sAuthMethodHost: https://kubernetes.example.com:443
connectInject:
  enabled: true
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note the references to the secrets extracted and applied from the first cluster in ACL and TLS configuration.

The `externalServers.hosts` and `externalServers.httpsPort`
refer to the IP and port of the UI's NodePort service deployed in the first cluster.
Set the `externalServers.hosts` to any Node IP of the first cluster,
which can be seen by running `kubectl get nodes --output wide`.
Set `externalServers.httpsPort` to the `nodePort` of the `cluster1-consul-ui` service.
In our example, the port is `31557`.

```shell-session
$ kubectl get service cluster1-consul-ui --context cluster1
NAME                 TYPE       CLUSTER-IP    EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)         AGE
cluster1-consul-ui   NodePort   10.0.240.80   <none>        443:31557/TCP   40h
```

The `grpcPort: 30014` configuration refers to the gRPC port number specified in the `NodePort` configuration in the first cluster.

Set the `externalServer.tlsServerName` to `server.dc1.consul`. This the DNS SAN
(Subject Alternative Name) that is present in the Consul server's certificate.
This is required because the connection to the Consul servers uses the node IP,
but that IP isn't present in the server's certificate.
To make sure that the hostname verification succeeds during the TLS handshake, set the TLS
server name to a DNS name that *is* present in the certificate.

Next, set `externalServers.k8sAuthMethodHost` to the address of the second Kubernetes API server.
This should be the address that is reachable from the first cluster, so it cannot be the internal DNS
available in each Kubernetes cluster. Consul needs it so that `consul login` with the Kubernetes auth method will work
from the second cluster.
More specifically, the Consul server will need to perform the verification of the Kubernetes service account
whenever `consul login` is called, and to verify service accounts from the second cluster, it needs to
reach the Kubernetes API in that cluster.
The easiest way to get it is from the `kubeconfig` by running `kubectl config view` and grabbing
the value of `cluster.server` for the second cluster.

Now, proceed with the installation of the second cluster.

```shell-session
$ helm install ${HELM_RELEASE_CONSUL} --values cluster2-values.yaml hashicorp/consul
```

## Verifying the Consul Service Mesh works

~> When Transparent proxy is enabled, services in one Kubernetes cluster that need to communicate with a service in another Kubernetes cluster must have an explicit upstream configured through the ["consul.hashicorp.com/connect-service-upstreams"](/consul/docs/k8s/annotations-and-labels#consul-hashicorp-com-connect-service-upstreams) annotation.

Now that the Consul cluster spanning across multiple k8s clusters is up and running, deploy two services in separate k8s clusters and verify that they can connect to each other.

First, deploy `static-server` service in the first cluster:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="static-server.yaml">

```yaml
---
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceIntentions
metadata:
  name: static-server
spec:
  destination:
    name: static-server
  sources:
    - name: static-client
      action: allow
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: static-server
spec:
  type: ClusterIP
  selector:
    app: static-server
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 8080
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: static-server
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: static-server
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: static-server
  template:
    metadata:
      name: static-server
      labels:
        app: static-server
      annotations:
        "consul.hashicorp.com/connect-inject": "true"
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: static-server
          image: hashicorp/http-echo:latest
          args:
            - -text="hello world"
            - -listen=:8080
          ports:
            - containerPort: 8080
              name: http
      serviceAccountName: static-server
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Note that defining a Service intention is required so that our services are allowed to talk to each other.

Next, deploy `static-client` in the second cluster with the following configuration:

<CodeBlockConfig filename="static-client.yaml">

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: static-client
spec:
  selector:
    app: static-client
  ports:
    - port: 80
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: static-client
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: static-client
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: static-client
  template:
    metadata:
      name: static-client
      labels:
        app: static-client
      annotations:
        "consul.hashicorp.com/connect-inject": "true"
        "consul.hashicorp.com/connect-service-upstreams": "static-server:1234"
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: static-client
          image: curlimages/curl:latest
          command: [ "/bin/sh", "-c", "--" ]
          args: [ "while true; do sleep 30; done;" ]
      serviceAccountName: static-client
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Once both services are up and running, try connecting to the `static-server` from `static-client`:

```shell-session
$ kubectl exec deploy/static-client -- curl --silent localhost:1234
"hello world"
```

A successful installation would return `hello world` for the above curl command output.
